Kolkata City Map Home » States » Westbengal » Kolkata City Map   Cities in West Bengal পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শহরসমুহ Kolkata কলকাতা Darjeeling Siliguri Barrackpore Haldia Bankura Suri                    more... पश्चिम बंगाल का नक्शा West Bengal West Bengal Map পশ্চিমবঙ্গ মানচিত্র West Bengal Districts West Bengal Roads West Bengal Railways West Bengal Rivers Tehsils of West Bengal Physical Map West Bengal Location Lat Long Map Mineral Map Industry Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Agriculture Map West Bengal Forests West Bengal Assembly Polls West Bengal Lok Sabha Elections West Bengal Economy West Bengal Government Places to Visit in West Bengal Travel to West Bengal Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel to Kolkata Travel to Siliguri Travel to Darjeeling Places to visit in Kolkata Places to visit in Darjeeling Victoria Memorial Hotels in West Bengal Hotels in Kolkata Hotels in Darjeeling Hotels in Siliguri Hotels in Kalimpong Hotels in Howrah Hotels in Durgapur            more... Society and Culture West Bengal Geography West Bengal History West Bengal Airport Map Kolkata Metro Map Siliguri Location Map Road Companion West Bengal Information West Bengal Media West Bengal Emergency numbers West Bengal Pin Code West Bengal STD Code Travel to Darjeeling Places to Visit in Darjeeling Sex Ratio Map Salt Lake Map Location of Nakhoda Masjid Varanasi Darjeeling Route Map Delhi Darjeeling Route Map Patna Darjeeling Route Map Power Network Map West Bengal Judiciary West Bengal Handicrafts Growth Centers Kolkata Siliguri Route Map Varanasi Siliguri Route Map Patna Siliguri Route Map Universities in West Bengal       Kolkata Kolkata City Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   * Kolkata city Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same.   Major Cities of West Bengal   Barrackpore City Map Bankura City Map Kalimpong City Map Salt Lake City Map         Asansol City Map Durgapur City Map Darjeeling City Map Kolkata City Map     other cities of West Bengal  >>   Travel Map of West Bengal   Darjeeling Travel Map Kolkata Travel Map Siliguri Travel Map West Bengal - Kolkata city Kolkata is the capital of West Bengal ,India and is one of the metropolitan cities in India. It is located in the eastern Indian and is situated on the bank of the river Hooghly. Fondly known as the "City of Joy", Kolkata is home to many personalities like Mother Teresa, Rabindranath Tagore, Satyajit Ray and Subhash Chandra Bose. Kolkata is located at 22.82 degree North 88. 20 degree east. It is spread on the banks of Hooghly River and has an elevation of 17 feet. The total area of Kolkata is 1480 square kilometers. The Sundarbans delta separates Kolkata from the Bay of Bengal. The city is divided into various topographical regions and five units namely the west, east, south, north and the central Kolkata. The regions adjoining the city are Hooghly, Howrah, south 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and the Nadia. About Kolkata Visitors need to take a look at the maps to know the exact location of the city and its vast area to reach the destination quickly. Hooghly River flows for around 15 kilometers along the western part of Kolkata. Kolkata is the second largest city in India and is recognized as a cosmopolitan city with people coming from various cultures, states and religions live together. Kolkata has enormous opportunities in various fields like technology, industry, education, tourism and many more. There are people visiting Kolkata from all parts of the world. Kolkata is a vast city, which needs a good map to carry with for visitors. The city also has its metro, which can help people in communicating faster. The city has many important places like Belur, Subhashnagar, Mirzapur, Garia and many more. Those wanting to visit these places can take the highway that runs all across the city and also outside. Kolkata also has many religious places that are good attractions for the visitors like St. Thomas Church, Jain Maniktala, Jain Belgachhiya, Gurudwara, and many more. There are plenty of hotels all over Kolkata that come in all ranges. There are seven star, five star and also budget hotels for tourists. The map here provides details of various hotels that visitors might be interested in. the Hyatt Regency, ITC Sonar, Oberoi Grand, The Golden Park, Hindustan international and the Ashoka are a few prominent hotels. The language spoken here is mostly Bengali; the other languages spoken are Hindi, English and a few others as well. People of all religion reside in Kolkata including Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians. Transport in Kolkata Kolkata has modern as well as old transport means of communication. Kolkata being a metropolitan city has all the modern transport system and is well connected to the rest of the country as well as the world. It has a good network of roads and national highways, where you see lots of cars, buses, taxis and also auto rickshaws. Kolkata is famous for its tram network. It is also the only city that has trams. Rickshaws pulled by men are also a common sight here. The fares are reasonable and are good for short distance use only. The Kolkata Metro is a very convenient mode of travel and is used by million to travel from one part of the city to the other. It is trusted by locals as well as the tourists. It is an underground railway network, which is the first one in India. It begins from Dum Dum in the north and continues to go to Park Street and the Esplanade and further onto Tollygunge in the south. For visitors it is better to carry a map and follow the routes of the metro as it can take you to places like Shyam Bazar, Belgachia, Chandni Chowk, Rabindra Sadan, Netaji Bhavan, Jatin Das Park, central, Girish Park, Mahatam Gandhi road and Shova Bazar. The Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport is to the north of the city and was earlier known as Dum Dum airport. It is situated around 17 km from the city center. Various flights take off to various cities in India and also to the other parts of the world. Places to visit There are innumerable places that are of interest to today's tourists. The old building structure of the British Raj is still a very admirable work. Visit the salt lake stadium, which is the second largest stadium in the world. The Victoria memorial is a very stunning beauty. The other places are the Marble Palace, Eden Garden cricket Stadium, Esplanade, Park Street, Zoological Garden and Botanical Garden. All these can be reached with the map provided here for the visitor's convenience. Blogs about Kolkata Which are the Best Cities in India to Live? : The development of cities and increasing urbanisation in India has transformed the Indian society and culture. A change in terms of occupation, living standards, thinking, education, culinary preferences etc is apparent. Cities, which are the hub of trade and commerce, attract everyone as growth rate here is higher as compared to small towns and villages. The wish to live a better life results in internal migration. People migrate from town and villages to cities and… read more... Which is the worst city to live in India? : Defining just one city as the worst city to live in India would not be appropriate. Some score good on one index and low on the other. Take a look at the capital of India. Every year Delhi welcomes hundreds of thousands of people from all across India as it has an edge over other cities in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities. On the other hand, it also tops the list when crime and… read more... Ten Most Popular Shooting Locations of Bollywood : The Indian film industry has its audience spread all across the globe. Thousands of films make it up to the silver screen every year and the size of audience watching these films is just infinite. Bollywood is, therefore, one of the best mediums for promoting tourism in India. The stupendous topography of India makes it a charismatic location for shooting films. There are a lot many picturesque locations in India and films play a major… read more... Top Five Shopping Hubs of Kolkata : A Shopping addict like me is always on the go to explore new places to splurge on! Small markets, big malls, different cities or different states, whatsoever may be the place; it is always on my radar. June-July are the official months of shopping since these are the months of heavy discounts and great offers! While thinking about some of the most enjoyable places to shop from, the magnificence of Kolkata surmounted my mind. So… read more... The Gracefully Unique Hanseswari Temple near Kolkata : Location: Banshberia town near Kolkata, West Bengal Being a devout believer of God, I have always loved visiting different religious places. And India being a massive hub of temples, I have been lucky to explore an array of some of the most beautiful and ancient temples of the country. Just as my search continued, I happened to stumble upon a very bizarre temple, something which I had not seen ever before.  Located in the famous… read more... Last Updated on : 24/09/2013 Places to Visit in Kolkata Religious Places in Kolkata Monuments in Kolkata Museums in Kolkata Gardens in Kolkata Amusement Parks in Kolkata             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule