Official Website:: Indian Veterinary Research Institute A+   |   A   |   A- About IVRI Preface Milestone Mandate Past Directors IVRI Administration Research Milestone Organogram Link & Collaboration Honours & Awards Location Map Contact Directory Research Joint Directorate of Research Preface from Joint Director(Research) Mandate Activities Research Projects Patents Technologies Transfered Technologies for Transfer Contact Details Academic IVRI Deemed University Message from Joint Director(Academic) Deemed University Administration Academic Session Cources Offered MVSc PhD National Diploma Admission Procedure For Sponspred Candidate Fellowship Medals & Awards Facilities Available University News IVRI Alumini Divisions Animal Health Divisions Division of Animal Biotechnology Division of Bacteriology & Mycology Division of Biological Products Division of Epidemiology Immunology Section Division of Medicine Division of Parasitology Division of Pathology Divison of Pharmacology & Toxicology Division of Standardization Division of Surgery Division of Veterinary Public Health Division of Virology Animal Production Divisions Animal Genetics Div. Animal Nutrition Div Animal Reproduction Division Livestock Production & Management Section. Division Physiology & Climatology Divison of Temprate Animal Husbandray Basic & Social Sc. Divisions Biochemistry & Food Sc. Section BEMI Section Extension Education Div Liv. Eco., Statistics & IT Div. Liv. Products & Tech. Div Sections ARIS Cell Bioinformatics Centre Centre Data Cell Communication Centre Engineering Section Farm Section Farm Machinery and Power Workshop Institute Technology Management Unit (I.T.M.U.) Laboratory Animal Resources Feed Technology Unit Germ Plasm Centre Humal Hospital National Library for Vety. Science Wildlife Section Games & Sports Section राजभाषा अनुभाग Extension Joint Directorate (EE) Preface Objectives Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Infrastructure/Facilities Research Projects Scientific Staff Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - Single Delivery Window Kisaan Mela 2011 Training Programmes Contact Details Disease Diagnosis Joint Directorate (CADRAD) Major Activities Major Achievements Services Offered Scientific Staff Training Programme Contact Details Services Biological Products Diagnostics & Examination Vety. Polyclinic Livestock Products Disease Diagnosis Vermi Biocomposting Krishi Vigyan Kendra ATIC - IVRI Single Window ITMU-Technology Transfer IVRI Publications Campuses Regional Campus Bangaluru Regional Station Kolkata Regional Station Mukteswar Regional Station Palampur Loading » About IVRI Achievements IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab IVRI Lab The institute with its long heritage and glorious scientific achievements has always enjoyed a certain prestige and tradition of its own. The institute at its headquarters functions through more than 20 research divisions, 400 acres livestock and fodder production farms, feed technology unit, a modern computerised library, engineering section, medical hospital, etc. Besides the main campus, three regional stations at Kolkata, Palampur and Srinagar and two full-fledged campuses at Mukteswar in Uttarakhand and Bangalore in Karnataka are the other functional units of the institute dedicated to livestock research and development. Further, the institute is the seat of two Centres of Advanced Faculty Training (Formerly Centres of Advanced Studies) in Animal Nutrition, and Veterinary Physiology, many a Network outreach programmes, National Agricultural Innovation Projects and All India Co-ordinated Research Projects. The institute, the largest of its kind in whole of South-east Asia, is widely known for its impressive contributions to all aspects of livestock and poultry health, production technology and postgraduate education. The Institute is a pioneer not only in mission-oriented research, but also a foremost centre for postgraduate training and education. For many in the profession it is their Alma Mater . The institute takes a legitimate pride in its contributions and distinguished services pro rata in achieving the national goals. With the richest animal resource in the world today, India is the largest milk producer and ranks fourth in egg production and fifth in broiler production in the world. These notable achievements became a reality due to direct impact on account of control of major diseases, particularly rinderpest and CBPP in cattle, African horse sickness in horses and Newcastle disease in poultry as a result of potent vaccines developed by IVRI. Some of the salient achievements are summarised below: A. Animal Health Early Interventions - Pre-independence Phase Development of anti-rinderpest serum (1899), anti-anthrax serum for cattle (1902), haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) serum (1905) Development of black quarter vaccine (1906-08) Treatment of surra ( T. evansi infection) in horses and camels (1908-11) Production of polyvalent HS vaccine (1908) Eradication of dourine in horses (1920-21) Development of goat tissue vaccine (GTV) against rinderpest (1927) Sustained R&D Activities - Post-independence Phase Development and updating FMD vaccines including crystal violet tongue epithelium (1946-52), goat kidney cell culture (1964-65), saponin and oil adjuvant (1968-70) and BHK-21 monolayer and cell suspension (1971-78) vaccines Development of anthrax spore vaccine (1951) Control and eradication of African horse sickness through appropriate diagnostics, vaccine and control strategies (1960 - 65) Development of an irradiated sheep lung worm vaccine (1973) Standardization of fermenter technology for large scale production of FMD vaccine in BHK-21 (clone 13) cells in suspension (1976-79) Development of Theileria schizont vaccine for bovine theileriosis (1979) Development of inactivated goat pox vaccine (1986-87) Successful use of horn plates in the management of long bone fractures in animals (1986-90) Development of drugs/formulations from indigenous medicinal plants for skin infections, ecto-and endoparasites and wounds (1990-96) Molecular characterization and differentiation of P. multocida strains, Salmonella serovars of veterinary and zoonotic significance using ribotyping, PCR and DNA fingerprinting techniques (1992-2000) Development of ELISA technology for diagnosis of salmonellosis, brucellosis, listeriosis, theileriosis, babesiosis, trypanosomosis, fasciolosis and echinococcosis (1995-99) and inclusion body hepatitis-hydropericardium syndrome (IBH-HPS) in chicks (2000) Discovery and documentation of the medicinal value of indigenous plants viz. , Cissus quadrangularsis (Hadjore), Ocimum sanctum (Tulsi), Pongamia pinnata (Karaei), Delonix regia (Gulmohar), Mongifera indica (Aam) and Asparagus racemosus (Shatavar) (1995-99) Development of monoclonal antibodies against P. multocida (1994-95), foot and mouth disease virus O,A,C and Asia-1 (1994-96), bovine herpes virus-1 (1995-96), Salmonella Enteritidis (1996-97), buffalo pox virus (1998-99) Development and release of a COFAL test kit for detection of ALC infection in poultry (1997). Olinall®, a formula for treatment of chronic skin ailments commercialized (1997) Development of a panel of hybridoma antibodies against rinderpest virus and a MAb based competitive ELISA to distinguish between rinderpest and PPR (1997-99) Development and release of a kit for diagnosis of bluetongue (1998), FMD (