Nagaland Railways Home » Maps » Nagaland » Railway Maps Of Nagaland   Nagaland Railway Map Dimarpur नागालैंड का नक्शा Nagaland Nagaland Map Kohima City Map Mokokchung City Map Districts of Nagaland Roads Rivers Tehsils Society and Culture Media Kohima Location Nagaland Location Physical Map Minerals Map Nagaland Pincode Nagaland STD Code Agriculture Map Capital Lat Long Geography Economy Assemblypolls Travel to Nagaland Places to visit in Nagaland Wildlife Sanctuaries Nagaland Museums Japfu Peak Hotels in Nagaland Dimapur Hotels Kohima Hotels Government & Politics Attractions History Universities In Nagaland       Railway Maps of Nagaland The railway maps of Nagaland show the important railway stations and junctions in the state of Nagaland, an important state in Northeast India. The Dimapur Railway Station is the principal railway station in the state. This railway station functions as a major transportation hub in the state and is used by both domestic tourists and international travelers alike. For arriving at the state of Nagaland by rail, visitors need to board a train that stops at the Dimapur Railway Station. Touring the state of Nagaland by rail is quite suitable for the travelers. Dimapur is the main railhead in Nagaland and it is well linked to Guwahati which serves as the entrance to Northeast India. Nevertheless, the railway network in the state of Nagaland is not so huge. Broad gauge rail lines cover approximately 12.84 km or 7.98 miles distance. The division of Indian Railways which operates in Nagaland is the Northeast Frontier Railways. The railway station at Dimapur connects Nagaland to the extensive railway network of India. The railway lines in the state link it to other stations in the country such as Guwahati, Dimapur, Lumding, Silchar, Tinsukia, and Haflong and to other bordering nations such as Bangladesh and Nepal. The railway transportation network of Nagaland functions as a major assistance in its commercial activities and associations with the other states in India. It also works as a dependable mode for travelers to trip across the state, particularly in the areas regarded as the most popular tourist destinations. Last Updated on 15th January 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule