CODEX Alimentarius: Codex Members & Observers english français español العربية ﻿中文 pусский Home About Codex Members & Observers Members Observers NGO participation Committees & Task Forces Meetings & Reports Circular letters Standards FAO/WHO Trust Fund Procedures & Strategies Scientific basis for Codex Contact & Links Login/Dashboard Codex Members and Observers Currently the Codex Alimentarius Commission has: 185 Codex Members - 184 Member Countries and 1 Member Organization (EU) 211 Codex Observers - 48 IGOs, 147 NGOs, 16 UN. Members Membership of the Commission is open to all Member Nations and Associate Members of FAO and WHO which are interested in international food standards. Regional economic integration organizations that are members of either FAO or WHO can also become members and special rules apply. To apply for membership please click here . Observer nations Any Member Nation or Associate Member of FAO or WHO which is not a Member of the Commission, may, upon request, attend sessions of the Commission and of its subsidiary bodies and ad hoc meetings as observers. Nations which, while not Member Nations or Associate Members of FAO or WHO, are members of the United Nations, may be invited on their request to attend meetings of the Commission as observers. To request an invitation interested Nations should write to the Codex Secretariat at least one month before the session.   Observer organizations For the participation of observers from other UN Organizations, IGOs and NGOs the following applies: UN organizations should fill in the application form and Observer status will be granted. IGOs or NGOs that have official relations with either FAO or WHO should fill in the application form and observer status will be granted. IGOs that have no official relations with either FAO or WHO should fill in the application form . The application will be examined by the Codex Secretariat and the legal offices of FAO and WHO. In the process further questions may be asked of the applicant. NGOs that have no official relations with either FAO or WHO should fill in the application form and submit related information as requested in the form. The organization should study the text on NGO participation before applying to check if it fulfils the criteria. The application will be examined by the Codex Secretariat and the legal offices of FAO and WHO as well as the Executive Committee of the Codex Alimentarius Commission. The Executive Committee then makes a recommendation to on the application to the Directors General of FAO and WHO. General public All Codex meetings are public to the limits of available space. Members of the public wishing to attend a Codex session should write to the Codex Secretariat at least one month before the session. Updated on: 03-03-2015 FAO/WHO Scientific Basis for Codex JECFA JMPR JEMRA Other scientific advice Latest news We need common international safety standards for food. 27 May 2015 -  Dr Kazuaki Miyagishima WHO Director, Department of Food Safety and Zoonoses and former Codex Secretary,   [...] Trade in Olives 25 May 2015 -  A recent online article in Mumbai reported on containers of olives being held up at customs at   [...] Proposed draft Regional Standard for Doogh 20 May 2015 -  Doogh is a savory yogurt-based beverage popular in Iran, Afghanistan, Armenia, Iraq, and Syria. It   [...] Near East Meeting to be held in Rome 1-5 June 13 May 2015 -  The eighth session of the Joint FAO/WHO Food Standards Programme FAO/WHO Coordinating Committee for the   [...] Residues of Veterinary Drugs in Foods 23 Apr 2015 -  The Codex Committee on Residues of Veterinary Drugs in Foods will be meeting next week   [...] News archive © Copyright 2015 Codex Alimentarius | RSS Feed | Guided Tour | Sitemap | Contact us | Print | Send link | Custom footer