Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Andhra Pradesh Travel Tourist Map Shopping How to Reach Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Places to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Buddhist Centers in Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh Mosques & Shrines in Andhra Pradesh Parks in Andhra Pradesh Caves in Andhra Pradesh Churches in Andhra Pradesh Beaches in Andhra Pradesh Temples in Andhra Pradesh Monuments in Andhra Pradesh Museums in Andhra Pradesh Cities to Visit in Andhra Pradesh Travel to Srisailam Travel to Tirupati Travel to Visakhapatnam Travel to Vijayawada Travel to Hyderabad Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Hotels in Visakhapatnam Hotels in Srikakulam Hotels in Kurnool Hotels in Tirupati Hotels in Vijayawada Hotels in Nellore About Andhra Pradesh History Climate Home » Andhra Pradesh » Tourism &raquo Hill Stations Hill Stations in Andhra Pradesh The Hill Stations in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh are a boon for not only the tourists but also for the local people. The solitary and serene hill stations are a fresh relief from the heat and dirt of the plain lands. Away from the hustle and bustle of daily lives, a trip to the beautiful hill stations of Andhra Pradesh is an invigorating and enlivening experience. The Andhra Pradesh Hill Stations are blessed with very rich natural vegetation. The beautiful hills are ornamented with lush green backdrop of the lush green flora. With the clear blue sky in the backdrop, the traversing mountainous ranges make a lovely landscape. There are a number of hill stations in Andhra Pradesh. The most popular hill stations in the state of Andhra Pradesh are Horsley Hills, Araku Valley and Anantagiri Hills. The Horsley Hills is situated southeast of the state. It is a peaceful village that offers wonderful views of exclusive and abundant vegetation. The Horseley Hills is abode of the Chenchu Tribes. With the presence of many wild animals like Wild Dogs, Bears and Jungle Fowl, the Horseley Hills offer an adventurous vacation. Situated in the Eastern Ghats, are the enthralling hill resorts of Araku Valley and Anantagiri Hills. The journey to Anantagiri is a dream run through the enchanting coffee plantation and occasional glimples of extensive mango groves make it picture perfect. To add to the beauty of the place, there are the graceful waterfalls on the way to the Anantagiri Hills. The Araku Valley is a cluster of five valleys. It is the home of about nineteen different tribes. It is the perfect option for holidaying in the nature’s lap. Anantagiri Hills Anantagiri, a mesmerizing hill resort, is cocooned in the green hills of Andhra Pradesh. It is blessed with some of the most strikingly beautiful view-points on the rolling hills of the Eastern Ghats. Thick woodlands, plush orchards, gorgeous waterfalls, a variety of flora and miles of coffee plantations await you in Anantagiri Hills. Anantagiri Hills is reputed as a health station as some of the flora here has medicinal properties, and the pleasant weather never fails to replenish the body and soul. Musi or Muchkunda river originates from Anantagiri. The Bhavanasi Lake, situated here, is referred to as the Badrinath of the South attracting pilgrims from far and away. The nearby Borra Caves are a treasure house in itself and date back to at least a million year. The natural formation of the stalactites and stalagmites in the Borra Caves is unique and attracts the adventurous and curious tourists from all over the world. Araku Valley also offers a favorite getaway from the Anantagiri Hills. Weather in Anantagiri Hills Anantagiri Hills is beautiful in its own way all through the year. Summers are cool, rains bring about a magical picture, autumn and spring sees a colorful landscape, and winters are serene with clear blue skies. Accommodation in Anantagiri Hills Reasonably priced cottages, rest houses and some hotels offer comfortable accommodation in Anantagiri Hills. Reaching Anantagiri Hills By road - There are several buses that link Anantagiri with Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad. By Rail - Srikakulam is the nearest railhead to Anantagiri Hills at a distance of just 3 km. The railway carved out of the Eastern Ghats is of one of the highest broad gauge tracks in the world. Araku Valley Araku Valley offers 46 tunnels and bridges on your way from Visakhapatnam, wonderful trekking terrain, coffee plantations, blossoming orchards, ancient caves that are a million year old, and of course, picturesque locales. You can also take a close look at the aboriginals of Andhra Pradesh in Araku Valley as it is home to 19 tribal communities and also has a unique tribal museum. In and Around Araku Valley Chaaparai Picnic Spot Araku Tribal Museum Borra Caves Tyda Sangda waterfalls Matsyagundam Paderu The Damuku View Point Padmapuram Botanical Gardens Government Silk Farm and the Mulberry Gardens Araku Valley Weather As a hill station, the Araku Valley is famous for its pleasant weather all through the year. Accommodation in Araku Valley Cottages, Inspection Bungalows, hotels and tourist guest houses, catering to different ranges are available in Araku. APTDC also provides comfortable accommodation in its Mayuri Tourist Complex. Reaching Araku Valley By Air: Visakhapatnam houses the nearest airport to the Araku Valley . By Rail: Araku itself has a railhead. By Road: Visakhapatnam at a distance of 110 km from Araku Valley provides regular bus and private car services to Araku valley. The state government also arranges daily packages to Araku and back from Visakhapatnam. Horsely HIlls Horsley Hills, a charming hill Station of Andhra Pradesh is situated on the state’s southwest border, at a distance 144 km from Tirupati. Pristine air ascent the Horsley Hills all through the year. Bask in the beauty of the nature and rejuvenate yourself to the soul. The shady hill resort is a perfect retreat to beat the heat of the summer months. Horsley Hills is rich in flora and fauna. A wide variety of flowers as well as medicinal plants ranging from Reetha, Shikakai, Amla, Eucalyptus, Jacaranda, Allamanda, Gulmohar, to, Beedi leaves, Bay leaves, Sandalwood, Blue gum, Mahogany and Bamboo. The Sampangi flowers charms the Horsley Hills with its exquisite flavor. The variety of fauna in Horsley Hills include bears, wild dogs, jungle fowl, sambars, panthers, four horned antelope, mouse deer, porcupine, and jackal. Horsley Hills is also home to the Chenchu tribes who keep the Pungannur cows renowned for its high milk producing capacity. In and Around Horsley Hills Mallamma temple Kaundiya Wild life sanctuary Weather in Horsley Hills At an altitude of 1,265 meters above sea level, Horsley Hills enjoy a more or less uniform coolness throughout the year which attracts tourists from all over the country. Accommodation in Horsley Hills Andhra Pradesh Tourism's Governors' Bungalow, and Chittoor Cooperative Society Guest House offers comfortable accommodation at a reasonable price in the beautiful summer retreat of Horsley Hills. Reaching Horsley Hills By Air: Tirupati(160 kms) and Bangalore (165 km) houses the airports that connect Horsley Hills by air to the rest of the country. By Rail: The railhead at Madanapalle Road is the nearest railway station to Horsley Hills. From the Madanapalle Road station, the town of Madanapalle is 13 kms and Horsley Hills 43 kms. By Road: State transport buses of Andhra Pradesh and private hire taxis are regularly available for Horsley Hills from Madanapalle and Tirupati. Last Updated on 29 March 2013 Hotels in Andhra Pradesh Adoni Hotels Eluru Hotels Hyderabad Hotels Kakinada Hotels Kurnool Hotels Nellore Hotels Ongole Hotels Puttaparthy Hotels Puttaparti Hotels Rajahmundry Hotels Secunderabad Hotels Srikakulam Hotels Tirupati Hotels Vijayawada Hotels Visakhapatnam Hotels Vizianagaram Hotels Andhra Pradesh Tourism Beaches Buddhist Centres Caves Churches Hill Stations Hotels Monuments Mosques Museums Parks Shopping Temples Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Wildlife Sanctuaries Travel Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Handicrafts Map Tourist Places in Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad Tirupati Vijayawada Vishakhapatnam Warangal Puttaparthi Rajahmundry How to Reach Andhra Pradesh Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table People, Culture and Festivals of Andhra Pradesh Art and Craft Fairs Festivals Performing Arts About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule