Matt Mullenweg | Unlucky in Cards Matt Mullenweg Unlucky in Cards Menu Skip to content Home About Themes Gallery Contact Let’s Work Together Search for: The Misconception about Money and Motivation , a good summary of the work by Dan Pink, Dan Ariely, and others. May 28, 2015 In the great balancing act of our social lives, between the gratification of self-interest and a concern for others, fleeting experiences of awe redefine the self in terms of the collective, and orient our actions toward the needs of those around us. The New York Times answers  Why Do We Experience Awe? May 27, 2015 Asides Matt One comment so far Monk was the master of the single note, perfectly selected, timed, and struck so that it would have a symphonic amplitude. The asymptote of his music is a punctuated silence, which is why he was especially sensitive to his drummers and dependent on them to organize the music’s forward motion. The New Yorker reviews the 15 CD set, The Best of Thelonious Monk , which sounds like a lovely set of music to spend a weekend with. May 26, 2015 Asides Matt One comment so far WordPress + Japan May 25, 2015 Asides Matt Did you know that WordPress users in Japan have meetups dedicated just to eating crab in the Fukui prefecture? WP Tavern has  has a fantastic article on Community, Translation, and Wapuu: How Japan is Shaping WordPress History . There is so much that is quotable, just check out the entire thing! View all 2 comments Andrew Bosworth, one of the early engineers and leaders at Facebook  tells the story about how he almost got fired in the early days despite being a top engineer . “If I was a good engineer, why would it be hard to work with me? Of course that question was the very foundation of my problem.” May 24, 2015 Talent is leaving Silicon Valley because of high real estate costs. Today, the median price for a home just exceeded $1 million. Why one in four Silicon Valley homebuyers wants to leave . Yep. May 23, 2015 The John Biggs article on Why I’m Still Wearing My Apple Watch almost perfectly describes how I’m feeling about the watch right now. It is a very personal device, I’ve gotten attached to the little fellow, and I should probably start selling all my mechanical watches. May 22, 2015 Posts navigation ← Older posts Proudly powered by WordPress Matt Mullenweg Proudly powered by WordPress Theme: Ma.tt.