Industry Growth Rate in India GDP Business Plans Format BPO Consultancy Event Management Financial Services Advertising Agency Travel Agency Restaurant India Companies Automobile Companies Top Aviation Companies Top Banking Companies Top Companies India Multinational Company Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Medical Agriculture Business Leaders Dhirubhai Ambani Azim Premji Mukesh Ambani Anil Ambani Anand Mahindra Lakshmi Narayan Mittal Rahul Bajaj Finance Credit Cards Mergers Acquisitions Refinance Top 10 Financial Top Auto Finance Top Asset Management Finance Glossary Banks in India SBI Mudra Bank Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank HDFC Bank Vijaya Bank Allahabad Bank UCO Bank Top Brands in India Red Wine Shoe Vodka Beer Headphones Handbags Chocolate Rum Laptop Cosmetic Bag Watch B-Schools Top B Schools in India Online Business School IIM website IIM distance learning IIPM Delhi IIPM Pune S.P. Jain institute India GDP    India GDP 2010-2011 India GDP History Calculating India GDP GDP India 2007 GDP India 2006 India Real GDP Growth India GDP Statistics India GDP Growth Rate India Per Capita GDP India GDP Composition Sector Wise Role of Major Industries-GDP You would like to see      India GDP India Tax General Motors India India Industry India Market India Company Globalization Annual Plans FMCG Home   » India-gdp » Sectorwise » Industry Growth Rate in India GDP Industry Growth Rate in India GDP Overall Rating:  [ 3 / 5 ]Total Votes [  12  ]    Rate this page: 1 2 3 4 5 The Indian economy is the twelfth biggest in the world for it has the GDP of US$ 1.09 trillion in 2007. The country has the second fastest major growing economy in the whole world for it has the GDP rate of 9.4% in 2006- 2007. The contribution of the Industrial Sector in India GDP The industrial sector is one of the main sectors that contribute to the Indian GDP. The country ranks fourteenth in the factory output in the world. The industrial sector is made up of manufacturing, mining and quarrying, and electricity, water supply, and gas sectors. The industrial sector accounts for around 27.6% of the India GDP and it employs over 17% of the total workforce in the country. The Growth Rate of the Industrial Sector in India GDP came to around 5.2% in 2002- 2003. In this year, within the India GDP, the mining and quarrying sector contributed 4.4%, the electricity, water supply, and gas sector contributed 2.8%, and the manufacturing sector contributed around 5.7%. The Growth Rate of the Industry Sector in India GDP came to around 6.6% in 2003- 2004 and in this year, the electricity, water supply, and gas sector contributed 4.8%, the mining and quarrying sector contributed 5.3%, and the manufacturing sector contributed 7.1% in India GDP. Industry Growth Rate in India GDP came to 7.4% in 2004- 2005, with the manufacturing sector contributing 8.1%, the mining and quarrying sector contributing 5.8%, and the water supply, electricity, and gas sector contributing 4.3% in India GDP. Industry Growth Rate in India GDP came to 7.6% in 2005- 2006. In this year, the mining and quarrying sector contributed 0.9%, the manufacturing sector contributed 9.0%, and the water supply, gas, and electricity sector contributed 4.3%. The Growth Rate of the Industrial Sector finally came to 9.8% in 2006- 2007. This shows that Industry Growth Rate in India GDP has been on the rise over the last few years. The reasons for the rise of Industry Growth Rate in India GDP The reasons for the increase of Industry Growth Rate in India GDP are that huge amounts of investments are being made in this sector and this has helped the industries to grow. Further the reasons for the rise of the Growth Rate of the Industrial Sector in India are that the consumption of the industrial goods has increased a great deal in the country, which in its turn has boosted the industrial sector. Also the reasons for the increase of Industry Growth Rate in India GDP are that the industrial goods are being exported in huge quantities from the country. The Indian government must boost the Industrial Sector Industry Growth Rate in India GDP thus has been registering steady growth over the past few years. This has given a major boost to the Indian economy. The government of India thus must continue to make efforts to boost the industrial sector in the country. For this will in turn help to grow the country's economy. India GDP Composition Sector Wise Agriculture Growth Rate-GDP Industry Growth Rate- GDP Infrastructure Sector Growth Rate- GDP Services Sector Growth Rate- GDP Business Expectations Index Surveys on India GDP India GDP and Standard of Living Limitations of GDP per Capita in Measuring Growth GDP India vs. GDP China India GDP Forecast 2008 World Bank India GDP About Us | Feedback | Privacy Policy | Site Map | XML Site Map | XML Image Sitemap | Link To Us | RSS Feeds | MapsofIndia Newsletter | Advertise With Us Business Ideas For Women With Low Investment For Graduates For Housewives For Beginners Small Business Ideas Online Business Ideas Home Based Insurance Insurance Policies Top Insurance Companies Life Insurance Health General Travel Automobile Private Insurance India Tax Tax Structure in India Tax System In India Income Tax Calculator Types of Tax Tax Slabs 2015-16 Tax Deductions Tax Saving Options Tax Rebate Banks in India Nationalised Banks State Bank of India Punjab National Bank Axis Bank ICICI Bank Corporation Bank Banking Companies Bank Branch Locator Credit Cards Credit Card Calculator Credit Card Comparisons List of Credit Cards Credit Card Frauds Credit Card Number Best Credit Cards Credit Cards for Students Credit Card Rates Indian Sectors Export Import Private Public Manufacturing Financial Agriculture Tourism Copyright 1999-2010 Mapsofindia.com Compare Infobase Limited (An ISO 9001:2000 Certified Company) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED