Language in Assam Home » Assam » Assam Society » Language in Assam   Assam Society Shopping Food Language Bihu Festivals & Events Culture                          more... Assam Assam Map Cities in Assam Districts of Assam Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Hotels in Assam Physical Map Assam Location Assam Pincode Assam Std Code Lat Long Map Outline Map Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies History of Assam Government and Politics Assam Economy Travel to Assam Places to Visit in Assam Wildlife Sanctuaries National Parks in Assam Hotels in Assam Dibrugarh Hotels Guwahati Hotels Jorhat Hotels Kaziranga Hotels Silchar Hotels Tezpur Hotels Tinsukia Hotels Education in Assam Media Handicrafts Geography More Info       Language in Assam Assamese and Bodo are the official languages in Assam , whereas in some of the districts in the Barak Valley, Bengali enjoys the official status. Majority of people in Assam speak Assamese. The language spoken is actually called Asamiya and the word 'Assamese' is an anglicized form of it. Assamese belong to the family of Indo-Aryan language. It gradually evolved from the Sanskrit language about the 7th century AD. Assamese literature is recognized as one of the richest in India. The Indian constitution has declared Assamese among the major languages of Republic of India. In ancient kingdoms of Ahom, Kamrupa, Koch, Kamatapur, Cuteeya, Borahi, and Kachari, Assamese was the language spoken by the common people of various origins like Khasi, Magadhan Prakrit, Bodo, and Sanskrit. Bodo is a very old language of the state and has given rise to most of modern languages and dialects spoken in Assam and the neighboring areas. Presently Bodo language is spoken mainly in the Lower Assam areas mostly in the areas, which belong to the Bodo Territorial Council. The other languages in Assam are the native languages like, Dimaca, Mishing, Karbi, Rabha, Tiwa, etc. These native languages are of Tibeto-Burman origin and are directly connected to Bodo. The small ethnic groups in various parts of Assam speak languages such as Tai-Phake, Tai-Aiton, Tai-Khamti, etc which have originated from Tai-group of languages of Southern China and South East Asia. In various parts of Assam languages namely Manipuri, Khasi, Garo, Hmar, Kuki, etc are also spoken. Last Updated on 10 January 2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule