Agritech 2015- Facing Challenges in Post Harvest Food Losses - AgricultureInformation.com Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your Message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store My Orders Need Help? Agritech 2015- Facing Challenges in Post Harvest Food Losses FOR SALE > Agritech 2015- Facing Challenges in Post Harvest Food Losses Currently, the world is facing one of the most serious problems of our time: how to feed the world’s rapidly growing population. It is estimated that in 2050 the world population will reach nearly 10 billion people. Recent studies have shown that at the current growth rate, even if we enhance crop and food production this increase will not be enough to provide sustenance to the population. One reason for this, is the loss of fresh and processed food, animal and plant, as well as grains, estimated together at 1.3 billion tons per year, one-third is loss of fruits and vegetables after harvest. Therefore, we need to invest much more in keeping produce fresh than in food production. The conference also deals with grain and seed storage, losses in Israel are less than 1%, while the world loss average is over 10% and in developing countries can reach between 30 to 50%. There is a need to increase the study of seed storage and not only of fresh produce (fruits and vegetables). In light of this an international conference will be held in Israel under the auspices of ARO, The Volcani Center, along with Kenes Exhibitions, the company organizers. The Agritech 2015 Conference < jradhatvm@gmail.com &code=478432&endpage=http://agritech.org.il/>” >http://xprt.com/mailblast.asp?id=3277&email= jradhatvm@gmail.com &code=478432&endpage=http://agritech.org.il/> will include eight keynote lectures by leading international experts in the field of fresh and processed food and grain preservation. In addition world renowned Israeli experts from the sectors of research, industry and government institutions, will contribute their knowledge on the solution to food loss reduction. The first day of this three day conference will focus on research and industry, and the second and third will focus on the consumer. Keynote Speakers: Chairperson Prof. Elazar Fallik, Scientific Coordinator:- Israel R&D Centers Agriculture Research Organization (ARO); Volcani Center, Israel Oscar Cgenerinski Director:- Global Corporate Coverage, IFC, USA Prof. Robin Grimes FCO Chief Scientific Advisor, UK Prof. Naresh Magan, Head:- Applied Mycology Group, Cranfield Soil & AgriFood Institute, Cranfield University, UK Prof. Dirk Maier Head:- Department of Grain Science and Industry, Kansas State University, USA Ed Moorhouse Group Technical Director, Gâ Complete this form to contact the person who posted the above message Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Enter above letters/numbers: You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) Search – messages Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Tags agriculture land agriculture land for sale aloevera capsicum coconut consultancy consultant cows cultivation dairy farm dairy farming distributors farming farm land ginger goat goat farm goat farming green house Job land for sale lease loan mango medicinal plant Melia Dubia moringa mushroom mushroom farming organic organic farming PAKAYOKO NATURAL SEED partner poly house poultry farming project report rice spirulina subsidy training turmeric vegetable vermicompost wanted farm land want land PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Related messages – questions, wanted, for sale Agri Expo at Calicut, Kerala on Dec-2014 Food processing expo Khadhya Khurak 2015 – 5th to 8th January, 2015 at Ahmedabad Krishimela @ Bangalore (GKVK Campus) on 19, 20 & 21 November. AP-TEC 2014, a Conference & Exhibition 06 – 08 December 2014 Log in Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details