Vijay Bahuguna: Biography, Family, Early days in Politics, Criticisms & Awards India Travel Business Utilities Newsletter Map Game Education Home » Who is Who » Government and Politics » Vijay Bahuguna   Who Is Who Government & Politics Literature Entertainment Art & Culture Business & Economy Religious & Spiritual Gurus Sports News & Media Social Activits & Reformers Science & Technology Health & Life Style History Defence Pot Pourri Swami Vivekananda Quotes Sachin Tendulkar Biography Raja Ram Mohan Roy Chandragupta Maurya Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Narendra Modi Biography       Vijay Bahuguna Vijay Bahuguna is the Chief Minister of the state of Uttarakhand and was sworn in on March 13th 2012. Born in Allahabad, Bahuguna obtained a bachelors degree and then a degree in law from the Allahabad University in Allahabad. He began working as an advocate in the Allahabad High Court, finally rising to the ranks of a judge and serving in the Bombay High Court. He resigned from his position as a judge in 1998 to join politics. Mr. Bahuguna is the son of the Late. Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, who was a prominent politician and freedom fighter and also served as Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. A member of the Indian National Congress Party, Mr. Bahuguna represents the Tehri Garhwal Lok Sabha constituency of Uttarakhand. Bahuguna is a member of the 15th Lok Sabha and was also a member of the 14th Lok Sabha. He is the first former judge to be Chief Minister of a state. Vijay Bahuguna has a sister, Rita Bahuguna, who is also a politician and is a leader in the Congress party and presides over the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee. Bahuguna is married to Sudha Bahuguna and they have three children.   Related Links   Chief Ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda Vijay Bahuguna Arvind Kejriwal Ptithviraj Chavan Nallari Kiran Kumar Reddy Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) Prem Kumar Dhumal mamta Banerjee Tarun Kumar Gogoi Omar Abdullah Nitish Kumar Naveen Patnaik Arjun Munda Neipiu Rio Sheila Dixit N Rangasamy Manohar Parrikar Pawan Kumar Chamling D V Sadananda Gowda Ashok Gehlot Oommen Chandy Jayalalitha Shivraj Singh Chouhan Parkash Singh Badal Akhilesh Yadav Chandrababu Naidu Last Updated on : February 1, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule