Something Fresh Menu Home About Something Fresh May 25, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment Gold monetisation scheme: It’s not shiny enough The big plus of the proposed Gold Monetisation Scheme (GMS) is that it thinks of the consumer. It makes it possible for her to use small pieces of gold for generating income or accumulating more gold. Life will also become easier for the jewellery industry that gives two million jobs. But is it ready to use? Not so fast. And will it fetch India its rightful seat on the table with the big boys of the global financial market? Not so likely.   The GMS requires three pillars to be successful. One, India should have a clutch of refineries that meet credible process and corporate governance standards. There are 17 refineries in the country. But we lack a certification standard for refineries against which they can be assessed by banks wanting to hire them. Only one Indian refinery has been approved by the London Bullion Market Association, whose standard is globally accepted. Until Indian standards are set, banks won’t move. Refiners run on wafer-thin margins anyway. They won’t be keen to participate without a hefty processing fee. Second, the scheme needs a buy-in from the banks. They will not accept certificates based on gold assayed by a Bureau of Indian Standards-approved outlet without adequate checks and balances. They will also need clear-cut rules on who is liable in any dispute about quantity and quality of gold left by the consumer with the testing centre. The scheme allows banks to trade on commodity exchanges. The big question is, will the RBI agree? Third, for the consumer, the scheme will operate exactly like a fixed deposit, with tax-free interest. If the rate of interest is meagre, they are unlikely to go laughing all the way to the bank. A gold deposit plan run by the State Bank of India since 1999 managed to draw just 15 tonnes because of a requirement to deposit a minimum 500 g and low interest rates of 0.75-1 per cent. Rural consumers are going to be left out until the scheme expands geographically. More importantly, there is no guidance on how the taxman will treat large deposits of under-the-mattress gold. Since no amnesty scheme has been announced, people may take the view that only the paranoid survive and stay away. Once the scheme takes off, the gains to the economy can be impressive. India can reduce its dependency on imported gold. The abundant physical supply will remove the artificial premium due to scarcity charged from consumers. A national gold bullion standard and certification process will develop that can match global benchmarks. Jewellers will be able to reduce leverage and debt. Jewellery exports will rise due to greater availability of raw material. Banks will be able to free up cash by depositing gold as part of their reserves with the RBI. The RBI can shore up its bullion reserves by purchasing recycled gold. Customers can rationally evaluate the returns from gold versus other asset classes. There will be an official national market for gold coins and bars, including the official Ashok Chakra coin and those issued by certified refiners, which will be traded as paper on commodity exchanges. In short, the policy has the potential to infuse transparency and energy into a troubled and fragmented sector. And yet, we expected more. India is the world’s largest importer of gold. Our festival demand and rural demand moves the international price. But we have never leveraged this pole position to our advantage. What we need is the larger vision of how the government plans to tilt the axis of power from the West to the East in the international gold market. As always, China is leading the way. Chinese regulators have pushed open up the country’s gold trade to foreign investors to make the yuan more international. Last September, it established a yuan-denominated spot gold trading platform and a corresponding settlement system in Shanghai’s freetrade zone to increase China’s influence over worldwide bullion prices. The presence of international refineries, bullion banks and trading houses has made it a serious competitor to the duopoly of the London Fix and the New York gold futures market. There is certain to be Chinese fixing price before the end of the year and rapid development of a Chinese gold options market. India too needs a plan to use gold as political chips on the world’s financial poker table. Without it, we will remain outside with our nose pressed against the glass, watching the big boys play. The proposed GMS will just help to keep our noses clean. DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author’s own. Permalink . May 13, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment Schizophrenia in soyabean RL Stevenson said “man is not truly one, but two”. He could as well be speaking of the soyabean. The soyabean is Nature’s way of packaging a handy mix of fat and protein. Unfortunately, in India, their fortunes rarely go hand in hand. And this has left soyabean with a Dr-Jekyll-and-Mr-Hyde type of personality. India allows free import of soyabean oil to keep a lid on consumer prices. This ensures that the oil is cheaper or aligned with the international price of soyabean oil. Since the world currently has record supply of soyabeans, and there is plenty of oil available, both the international and domestic prices of soya oil are nothing to write home about. But the price of oil decides only 20% of a bean’s value. The rest comes from the price of protein or soyameal, fed to milch cows and chickens. With each tonne of crude soyabean oil comes 4.5 tons of soyabean meal. And in India, meal is the bean’s darker side. India does not allow duty-free import of soyameal. It also bars meal from genetically modified soyabeans, which disqualifies US and South American supply. The demand for protein to feed dairy and poultry animals is growing faster than the supply of local meal. Together, they allow meal to command monopoly prices. So, while the world market for meal is presently ruling in the range of $366/tonne, Indian meal has become an island of prosperity with twice that price. And this is pulling up beans. Who gains from this? Farmers are certainly enjoying the party. Being savvy businessmen, they have understood that meal calls the shots, though oil may hog the headlines. As long as the price of meal is high, beans will be profitable. Price signals from futures trading in Mumbai and Chicago tell them exactly what lies ahead. And the bean’s long shelf-life takes away the urgency to immediately sell off the harvest. Putting two and two together, farmers have adopted a unique just-in-time delivery model that gives them power over the processing industry. They hold on to the harvest for the entire marketing year, and ration bean supply so that prices remain buoyant throughout. Though this means paying the cost of storing the beans for such a long time, the returns are usually worth it. Take the current scenario. The soyabean marketing season started on October 1, 2014 and will go up to September 30, 2015. Farmers know that the soyabean crushing industry usually uses about 3.25-4 lakh tonnes beans a month. So, each day they are only selling around 10,000 tonnes. This slow pace doesn’t allow mills to stock up on raw material. Instead, they continue scrambling for beans, which keeps prices high. Will the trickle of supply ever become a flood? The crop estimates for 2014-15 provide no easy answer. They range from 10 million tonnes by industry body SOPA to 9.8 million tonnes by the $A and 8.5 million tonnes by local brokers. But past experience has shown that farmers are motivated to stock or sell beans only by the price signals they get and not absolute crop numbers. Cut off the price signals, and you cut off their life line. This selling behavior has got the soya industry in a tizzy. They are enjoying high domestic prices of meal but ruing the missed export opportunity. Exports were down 77% in 2014-15 over the previous year due to stiff competition overseas and remain lacklustre. The animal feed industry is miffed by the steep rise in meal prices. Both are suffering the result of the closed trade policy. As long as local feed industry has no choice, Indian soyabean meal will remain expensive. That in turn will pull up beans. And, therefore, unless there is a global shortage of beans, our soya meal will never be competitive overseas. Farmers are simply making hay while the sun shines. Free trade is clearly the answer. But in which part in the chain? The animal feed industry wants duty-free import of meal, without any restriction on GM. This is opposed by soya processors, who see it as a kick below the belt. Instead, processors would like free import of soyabean, which makes farmers face more competition, but are afraid of political backlash. They needn’t worry. Unlike industry, farmers have always been subjected to perfect competition – from fellow farmers in the mandi and foreign farmers through free trade in oil – and acquitted themselves creditably. If the soya industry helps them increase productivity and grow more beans, they will gladly learn. If not, they will shift to another crop. Soyabean’s split personality has taught them how to use the tools of modern markets to gain power and wrest control. The really big question is will industry, and indeed the policy makers, ever know their own mind. DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author’s own. Tags: farmers , oil , soya , soyabean , soyabean oil | Permalink . May 5, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment David Ricardo and the curious case of soyabean If the secret of business is to know something that no one else knows, India’s soya barons are in an unenviable spot. In the last few years, their own business has become hard to figure. Factories are lying idle but beans are expensive. There are no takers for their soya oil. Yet, it is being imported. Once states were vying for their investment. Now they are hobbled with taxes. Suspecting deliberate sabotage, the jittery industry is crying foul. But as always, the real enemy is elsewhere. David Ricardo developed the theory of comparative advantage in his book “On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation”, written in 1817. The core idea is that each country should focus on what it is best at, or least bad at, producing. Comparative advantage is the impetus for global trade. It is the reason why global manufacturing shifted to China and Bangalore became an IT hub. Comparative advantage is good news for consumers. For managers, it means greater competition from across the globe. More and more jobs and industries have become tradable. And in commodities – the ultimate tradable industry – the disruption is even higher. India’s soyabean industry is a textbook case for students of Ricardo. India is a conducive market for both soyabean oil and its meal, which is fed to cattle. Demand for oil and feed is rising by over 6% annually. Health-conscious consumers are buying soya protein, and soya-fortified wheat flours and biscuits as a substitute for animal protein. But the gains are captured by foreign suppliers – Brazil and USA for soya oil, and Malaysia and Indonesia for palm oil. Palm oil is the world’s cheapest oil because oil palm trees are high-yielding perennials, unlike beans harvested annually. This makes it the first choice of price-sensitive Indian consumers. Palm oil is also easiest to blend, and has widest usage in the food industry (margarine, biscuits, breads, breakfast cereals, instant noodles, chocolate, and ice cream) and non-food (shampoo, cosmetics, candles, and detergents) sectors. The price of palm oil thus keeps all other oils honest. In a direct fight, Indian soya oil is easily outgunned. Within the soya oil race, Brazil, Argentina and USA are clear winners, thanks to advanced GM seed technology, which gives them up to 60% more yield per acre. Indian yields have remained static for decades because farmers continue to grow it in under-nourished and dry areas, with minimum inputs. Indian processing is equally outclassed. On average, India’s solvent extraction plants are about one-sixth the size of those in the United States and the EU and use significantly more power, steam, and hexane solvent per unit of oilseeds processed. Even India’s largest integrated expeller-solvent extraction plants are small and high-cost by international standards. To understand why Indian soyabean is caught in this poor productivity trap from farm-gate to factory-gate, which cost them the race, we need to rewind the past. Soyabean contains 18% oil and 82% protein. India rightly introduced soyabean in the Seventies not as an oilseed but as a pulse (dhal) to fulfill demand for proteins. Uttar Pradesh farmers were encouraged to adopt soyabean as a low-input crop for fallow areas. Soyabean was seen as a miracle crop that would repeat the success story achieved in the United States. The crop was found to be the most profitable among all legume crops, capable of increasing farmers’ income by 88%. The protein efficiency ratio of soyabean was found to be 2.4 as compared with 1.7 for groundnut and from 1.5 to 1.7 for pulses. Farmers took to soyabean enthusiastically. Government and agri-scientists expected people to quickly adopt soyabean nuggets, milk and dhal and thus create a win-win situation. Unfortunately, they reckoned without the complication of human taste. Consumers hated the taste and smell of soya products. Suddenly, there were no takers for the beans. Farmers in Uttar Pradesh abandoned soya and cultivation shifted to the less fertile areas of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. During this time, prices of edible oil in the domestic market began spiraling. Between 1977 and 1987, 40% of the edible oil consumed was imported. Even soyabean, with just 18% oil, began appearing like a viable option. Rather like tar sands when crude oil prices flared up. Overnight, what should have been a highly prized pulses crop, became an oilseed. Soyabean effectively conceded its comparative advantage in proteins and instead began competing against more oil-rich alternatives such as rapeseed mustard, sunflower and groundnut, leave alone palm oil. To help farmers find a market, Madhya Pradesh offered a slew of incentives to entice investment. A large number of processing units cropped up in and around soyabean growing areas. Eventually, the installed capacity surpassed the supply of raw material. For a total harvest of 10 million tonnes, the crushing capacity available is 22 million tonnes. Madhya Pradesh alone can crush 15 million tonnes beans. The business plan was to sell the oil locally taking advantage of sustained high prices. And since they lacked the technology for palatable protein foods, export the meal at a premium for non-GM status to South East Asian markets as feed. But it quickly blew a fuse. Since soya oil yield is low, mills need to crush larger quantities to compete against rapeseed mustard and groundnut. Each year, soya oil has to wait till their supply dwindles for sales to gather momentum. The excess processing capacity has created a cutthroat fight for beans which raises the variable cost. Even so, most plants run at barely 40% capacity. The high cost structure makes Brazilian and US oil attractive. Competition from palm oil can only be managed with higher import duties, at the cost of the poorest consumer segments. Given the spectre of food inflation, no government is willing to heed this demand. Meal exports are challenged by Brazil, Argentina and the USA in destination markets, especially when bumper harvests overcome the disadvantage of higher freight costs, such as this year. Domestic meal sales are dependent on demand from an equally fragmented poultry and feed industry. Farmers can see that the industry is caught in this pincer of high costs and high competition. Thanks to greater staying power and correct price signals from futures market, farmers hold on to their beans for months, thereby further pushing up raw material prices. They have little interest in raising productivity because the high processing costs dampen the bean prices mills are willing to pay. With slim hopes of higher farm-gate productivity, bankers baying at their heels, and steep fixed costs, majority mills are headed for closure or sale. The crisis in soyabean is hardly unique. All industries caught on the wrong side of history due to the forces of comparative advantage, from US car companies to British textiles, went through similar throes. And like USA and Europe, the escape route for Indian soyabean is also to go higher up the value chain. Most value is captured by the firm closest to the customer. In soya’s case, it is branded oils and protein foods. Companies such as Adani, Ruchi Soya and ITC, which early understood this, have been able to withstand competition and grow. The ability to learn faster than their competitors has given them the only sustainable competitive advantage. But the opportunity remains large. Branded oils make up only a third of the total sales. It does, however, require a higher set of skills. Globalization makes the world more exciting, dangerous, or complicated depending on your point of view. Soya barons need to move from comparative advantage to perpetual advantage. The journey starts by identifying the real problem. Reading David Ricardo may help. DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author’s own. Permalink . April 29, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment The Real Kisan Crisis Even as the Indian Meteorological Department on Wednesday forecast ‘below normal’ rainfall for the Juneto-September monsoon season and a farmer from Rajasthan committed suicide at an AAP rally in Delhi on the same day, there has been plenty of sound and fury about ‘saving’ farmers over the last few days. On Monday, aday after he spoke at the Ramlila Maidan about the government being ‘anti-farmer’, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi lambasted a ‘suitboot ki sarkar’ that didn’t care about India’s peasantry in Parliament. Other than the politics, his plan to ‘rescue’ farmers signifies nothing. Political maneuvering has kept everyone’s eyes focused on the Land Bill and its potential to forcibly dislocate farmers from their property. But no party has addressed the enormous challenge of how to stop farmers from fleeing their profession in droves or from committing suicide. Like the rest of us, rural families seek sufficient income for a good quality of life. When that income is missing from farming, they find new occupations. The real concern facing India’s 56 million farmers living in its six lakh villages is that we have still not devised an efficient way to cope with the systemic risks that threaten farmer incomes. Farm incomes are affected by weather, which impacts production. And prices, which impact sales. The marketing year 2014-15 was agriculture’s annus horribilis with a rare double whammy of bad weather and low prices. The consequent rural anger and helplessness is spilling out on city streets through participation in rallies and protests. Freak weather since January has affected wheat, chana, lentil, maize, cotton, rapeseed, mustard and fruit crops. Even though farmers received weather alerts through text messages and community radio from government agencies, they could do little as the crops were not ready for harvest. Crop insurance is the solution. But according to an Assocham study, 80 per cent farmers are unaware of it. Insurance companies, too, focus on farmers willing to pay a premium, or those who opt for loans with mandatory crop insurance. Even those who bought weather insurance won’t find succour this year. The insurance is done on an area basis. So, if heavy rain damages only a few acres in a village, the insurance company pays compensation for the average loss of the village instead of the individual farmer’s loss. The government-owned Agriculture Insurance Corporation estimates that claims from unseasonal rains could touch Rs 100 crore. Compare that with American farmers, who so far have received $8.8 billion in indemnity payments for their 2014 crops. This is a 26 per cent decrease from 2013, when farmers received more than $12 billion in indemnity payments. The US federal crop insurance programme covers corn, wheat and soya bean, as well as fruits and vegetables. Meanwhile, efforts such as the central government’s direct relief payment, relaxation in the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) procurement specifications, or Haryana’s proposal to set up its own insurance company appear too little too late. The unseasonal rains came as a final blow after two seasons— kharif and rabi 2014—of prices dropping below cost of cultivation. From producing too little in 2012-13, we seem to have jumped to producing too much. How did that happen? Over the last one year, farmers were mainly catering to domestic demand, which isn’t enough to absorb the entire supply. And that is the nub of the matter. India is crucially dependent on exports to keep its agriculture profitable. In 2014, the additional outlet of export was cut off mainly because bumper crops in competing nations and the stronger dollar pushed down prices of corn, cotton, dairy, tea, oilmeals, guargum, basmati, sugar in the world markets. Import of cheaper edible oils kept a lid on domestic oilseed prices. In short, our crops couldn’t compete. Stocks of cotton and corn procured by the government to shore up prices acted as an overhang on the market. The Rs 500 crore Price Stabilisation Fund remains for potato and onion. Since consumers and the wholesale price index (WPI) were benefitting from falling prices, public action remained subdued. Sensing the seething rural anger, political parties cashed in. For farmers, protests against the Land Bill were proxy for the deeper trauma of falling incomes. After continuously rising for last five years, India’s farm sector and allied product exports have declined in 2014-15. And this vital but little known fact reveals the real reason behind the widespread rural distress. Farmers urgently need an efficient system to cope with the vagaries of global trade. The real question before every political party is how can we make Indian agriculture globally competitive? The answers to that can’t be found in the Ramlila Maidan and Bhatta-Parsaul. DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author’s own. Permalink . April 22, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment The Suicide In The Capital Must Wake Us To The Extent Of Farm Distress The suicide of a farmer at the AAP rally today in the heart of Delhi is a stark symbol of rural anger and helplessness. It is an equally grim reminder that political parties have no solution to offer other than a relentless barrage of sound bites and photo opportunities at the hospital. Urban India’s interest in agriculture begins and ends with the annual monsoon forecast and the weekly inflation number. In 2014-15, the monsoon was normal and inflation was subdued. In other words, there was no impending rise in food prices. So all eyes were off the ball. “Only 20% farmers in India have crop insurance. “ India’s 118 million farmers experienced 2014-15 differently. They were saddled with more production than the market could absorb–due to the overhang of last year’s stocks and dull exports, and high fixed costs. And they lack the financial resilience to cope with this situation. Indian agriculture is financed by debt. If farmers don’t at least break even in a year, they can’t pay back banks, village moneylenders, commission agents, and agri-input dealers. School fees, motorcycle loan, tractor loan and other recurring costs become a noose. This year, there was hardly any money on the table throughout the food value chain because of the depressed prices. Sugarcane, traditionally the most profitable crop, is the classic example. Production has surpassed demand so comprehensively that prevailing wholesale prices are at round Rs22/kg while the cost of production of sugar (by crushing the cane in a mill) is Rs30. As a result, farmers have arrears of over Rs19,000 crore for sugarcane in 18 states, of which almost Rs10,000 crore is owed to farmers in Uttar Pradesh alone. There is little hope of succor any time soon as half of the 530 mills that were crushing cane this season have closed down to stem further losses. Since the average Indian farmer, with around one hectare of land, lacks the wherewithal to similarly hunker down, the human suffering is significantly larger than the financial suffering. What Can Be Done To Help Is there a way to ensure farmers acquire the financial strength to withstand a bad season or two? The answer does not lie in giving more crop loans or announcing loan waivers. Instead, farmers can be made more competitive by helping them reduce the cost of cultivation. Efforts to improve soil health can reduce the excessive spend on fertilizers and chemicals. Certified seed can ensure that no money is lost buying fakes trolling the market. There will be no need for expensive diesel gensets for tubewells if drip irrigation and better water management is promoted. Livestock and poultry act as a natural insurance against crop failure. But returns remain below par because high-yielding cross-bred animals are expensive. Small farmers save on labour and machinery costs by toiling themselves. The downside is the severe stress on health and wellness of the primary bread earner. The virtual absence of personal insurance and crop insurance makes it tough to recover from even a temporary setback because that requires ready cash in hand. Only 20% farmers in India have crop insurance. Substantially increasing this number will raise agriculture’s overall risk-bearing capability. Post-harvest crop management and marketing are a serious addition to costs. From poor transportation systems and cartelization of middle men to the lack of modern warehousing and storage capacity, all inefficiencies in the system add to the farmer’s cost of business. The mobile phone alone can be of enormous help. A survey of farmers in Bihar, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal in 2011 found that more than 70% of the farmers polled said they were getting better prices because they were using the mobile phone for agricultural information. Lower cost of production will allow farmers to compete more strongly against China, Ukraine and Brazil in world commodity markets. This will take care of the problem of plenty that is often faced when India is outbid by these fierce competitors overseas. Most importantly, farmers have to build assets other than land. Gold remains the popular choice. But it is out of the reach of families without disposable income. If the crop itself becomes an asset in the hands of farmers through negotiable warehouse receipts, they will be freed from the vicious cycle of land mortages and foreclosures. “How prepared is the Indian farmer to handle the impact of climate change on his economic life?” Solutions to all these problems are available. The thrust to a national agri market, soil health cards, and Jan Dhan accounts by the Modi government is a good step. But the rest need an equally massive push because farmers themselves are too caught up in the relentless cycle of making two ends meet. The protests on the streets of Delhi are ultimately about the resilience of Indian agriculture to impending climate change. The freak weather incidents will become more frequent and years of normal monsoon rarer still. Traditional crop insurance will blow a fuse. How prepared is the Indian farmer to handle the impact of climate change on his economic life? That is the question. If our political parties are wise, they will spend some time pondering the issue. Permalink . April 15, 2015 by Nidhi Nath Srinivas Leave a comment Why Government Should Not See Gold As A Burden India is burdened by its love for gold. Our position as the one of world’s top gold consumers has become a cross round our neck. But need it be so? Not if China’s success is any indicator. China has single-handedly tilted the balance of power in world gold market from West to East. China is the most important player in the world gold market. It accumulates gold for its monetary value and in anticipation of a new monetary system. In 2013, China emerged as the world’s largest producer and consumer of gold. In 2014, it effectively sealed this dominance with a unique mix of market-savvy strategies. The first one was to encourage its people to start holding gold. In 1950, communist China prohibited private ownership of bullion and put the gold industry under state control. Fifty years later the People’s Bank of China abandoned its monopoly on the purchase, allocation and pricing of gold. In 2004, for the first time since 1950, private persons were permitted to own and trade gold. Gold demand in China could not have flourished as it has without the blessing of the authorities. The World Gold Council’s recent report, China Gold Market: Progress and Prospects, says, “China’s leaders regard the public’s gold holdings as part of the nation’s reserves that could be called upon in an emergency”. China should accumulate 8,500 tonnes in official gold reserves, more than the US, according to Song Xin, President of the China Gold Association, General Manager of the China National Gold Group Corporation and Party Secretary. Investment in gold has benefited also from the limited selection of alternative forms of savings in China. Today China is the world’s largest market for gold bars. This demand will only accelerate in future. And it will be a fundamental factor supporting the flow of gold from West to East. The second aspect of the strategy is to consolidate its pole position as largest producer of gold in the world. Gold’s big three (South Africa, the United States, and Australia) were the big three for a long time. In 2007, China overtook them. Gold production over the last decade has more than doubled. Interestingly, the major source of China’s big increase in production is thousands of new smaller-scale mines. With labour and materials cheap, coupled with a generally lax regulatory system, it’s not too difficult to develop a mining operation. Foreign expansion will be a growing priority for Chinese mining companies. Australia, Peru, Canada, Colombia and the United States are all attractive destinations for investment. Growing political ties between China and Africa will also spur the development of projects in Ghana and Congo. China’s central bank recently circulated a draft plan to ease restrictions on gold imports by local miners. The third strategy is the internationalization of its gold market. Until recently, China’s gold market was closed. Now Chinese regulators are pushing to open up the country’s gold trade and lure foreign investors as part of its broader effort to link the mainland to global markets. In September, it began offering international institutions access to yuan-denominated gold contracts in Shanghai’s free-trade zone through the International Board of SGE. The core business of the SGEI is to facilitate offshore gold trading in RMB. International customers can only deposit and withdrawal gold into and from IB Certified Vaults. This way international banks or investors trading IB physical products cannot drain physical gold from China mainland. The first transactions were put through by a diverse group comprising HSBC, MKS (Switzerland), and the Chinese banks, ICBC, Bank of China and Bank of Communications. MKS is the Geneva headquartered precious metals trading group that also owns the large PAMP refinery in Switzerland. International bullion banks who have already announced their participation include ANZ, Standard Chartered and HSBC. The presence of international refineries within SGEI trading should help it become a serious competitor to the gold price discovery in the London and New York markets. Since there is a lot of physical gold flowing through the exchange, price discovery is not just based on mostly unallocated gold as in London or paper gold as in New York. There is also a larger game plan here. The world price of gold is dollar-priced and fluctuates with the US dollar. With the shaky status of the US dollar as the international reserve currency, China wants a new global currency setup. China has established a free trade yuan-denominated spot gold trading platform and a corresponding settlement system to increase China’s influence over global bullion prices. The fourth, and related, development has been the closer relationship between Hong Kong, Singapore, and Shanghai gold markets. The Hong Kong-based Chinese Gold and Silver Society recently announced that they plan to build a massive new precious metals vault in Qianhai in Shenzhen. Its real purpose is to support a CGSE gold trading platform in Shenzhen and allow this new Shenzhen gold exchange to link up with the Shanghai Gold Exchange. Singapore has also introduced a physical gold contract this year in tandem with SGE, highlighting a push in the biggest consuming region to establish new price benchmarks as demand shifts east. In the past, the world’s gold supply was channeled through London. Now a majority of refiners are in Switzerland and they are increasingly producing the 1 kg bar destined for Asia. With China opening up gold importing to bullion banks to channel gold directly to Shanghai, the supply through London is falling. So the ability of London to reflect a price that accounts for the bulk of global demand/supply is diminishing. Soon global gold suppliers and buyers will flock to do business in Shanghai rather than in London. In short, China is purposefully changing the structure of the world gold market. China’s moves show that some governments believe gold will return to its role as an international currency. That gold can fill the vacuum created by the flailing ruble, dollar and the euro. India, as the other engine of the demand pull from the East, can equally easily take advantage of this shift. But that will only happen when we stop seeing gold as a burden, or as merely raw material for the jewellery sector, and fit it into our broader strategic and financial imperatives. Permalink . Post navigation About Author Nidhi Nath Srinivas Nidhi Nath Srinivas is the Chief Marketing Officer, Ncdex. The views are personal. Archives May 2015 April 2015 Social View @NidhiNSrinivas’s profile on Twitter Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . | The Yoko Theme . Top Something Fresh Blog at WordPress.com . The Yoko Theme . Follow Follow “Something Fresh” Get every new post delivered to your Inbox. Build a website with WordPress.com