Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Development of Humane Action Home | About Us Overview Board of Trustees Management Awards DHAN's Reach Structure Our Partners/Collaborators | Programmes Kalanjiam Foundation Vayalagam Foundation ICT for Poor Tata-Dhan Academy Coastal Conservation and Livelihood Programme Rainfed Farming Development Programme Working with Panchayats Tourism for Development | Centres Centre for Human Resource Development DHAN People Academy Centre for Finance Centre for Facilitating Philanthropy Centre for Development Communication Centre for Research Centre for Policy and Planning | People Institutions Kalanjiam Development Financial Services People Mutuals Kalanjium Thozhilagam Limited | Get Involved Work with us Volunteer Internship | Resources Annual Report Reports & Papers Books Newsletters Audio & Video Posters & Calendars | Support Us | Media DHAN in Media Press Release | Contact us Home >> People Institutions >> Kalanjiam Development Financial Services kalanjiam Development Finanicial Services KDFS is a development financial institution set up by DHAN Foundation in September 2001 under Sec. 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. It is registered legal entity to serve the poor on non-profit basis. Presently Kalanjiam, Vayalagam, Rainfed programme and Coastal programme and other NGO SHGs are its members. KDFS functions mainly to bridge the gap due to delay in the sanction of loans from the mainstream financial institutions and commercial banks by providing timely assistance. It also acts as financial linkage institution to meet the needs of the poor wherever there is no commercial bank in the place of operation of the locations.   Objectives To provide credit facilities to poor individuals joined together as ‘self-help groups’ To facilitate and liaise with government, resource institutions for establishing financial and other linkages To promote, develop, finance rural and urban industries in all fields of benefit and interest to the poor   Governance KDFS is governed by poor people, like other ‘people institutions’ promoted by DHAN. Board of Directors consist of ten persons of which four are people leaders and the remaining six are eminent development workers govern the institution.   Areas of operation KDFS is currently operating in 12 states viz. Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Orissa, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, Jharkhand and Bihar networking with Kalanjiam and Vayalagam programme of DHAN Foundation and also SRTT partner NGOs like IBTADA, Aravali, Srijan, etc. Downloads Annual Report 2011-2012 ( Download, Size: 6316KB ) Annual Report 2010-2011 ( Download, Size: 3087KB ) ﻿ news & events DHAN Foundation's Participation in India Water Week 2015 DHAN Foundation organises Walkathon 2015 on the theme of "Green and Clean Environment" - January 24, 2015. Application Invited for 16th Programme in Development Management (PDM XVI) : 2015-2017 Short Film and Poster Contest on the theme of Effectively motivating the common public to Consume small millets on a regular basis - Walkathon, 2014. Tamil Nadu Water Week 2014 during 8-12 December 2014 at Madurai Provisional Selection List for Programme in Development Management (PDM XV) (2014-2016) DHAN Vayalagam (Tank) Foundation bagged Bihar Innovation Forum Award for its Ahar-Pyne renovation works in Gaya. DHAN Foundation wins Sarda Equal Opportunity Award 2013. DHAN Foundation bags AGFUND International Prize for Pioneering Development Projects for 2012 in the field of Food Security for the Poor. DHAN Foundation bags Times of India Social Impact Awards under Environment Category More News >> support us stories Turning the tide - Enabling poverty reduction It is rare to find a woman shoulder the responsibility of farming. It is usually the male counterpart who takes up the farm responsibility, but it is not so in the life of Kamatchi. Read More... Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Home | Site Map | Privacy Policy | Contact us © 2010 DHAN Foundation - All rights reserved