Raipur, Capital City of Chhattisgarh Home » Chhattisgarh » Capital City   Chhattisgarh छत्तीसगढ़ का नक्शा Chhattisgarh Map Cities in Chhattisgarh Naya Raipur Surajpur Kondagaon Baloda Bazar Ambikapur Pendra Kirandul Baikunthpur                      more... Districts of Chhattisgarh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Chhattisgarh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Chhattisgarh Places to Visit in Chhattisgarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Chitrakoot Waterfall Haat Bazaars Indravati National Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Chhattisgarh Forests Parliamentary Constituencies Economy History Government Politics How to Reach Geography People Culture Festivals Hotels in Chhattisgarh Ambikapur Hotels Bhilai Hotels Jagdalpur Hotels Korba Hotels Raigarh Hotels Raipur Hotels Area Chhattisgarh at a Glance Capital City Chief Minister Governor Pincode Population Telephone Code Chhattisgarh Factsheet District Map in Hindi Universities in Chhattisgarh       Raipur - Capital City of Chhattisgarh Comprising of two Lok Sabha constituencies, 13 Vidhan Sabha constituencies, 15 revenue blocks and 13 tehsils, Raipur, the Chhattisgarh Capital City has a total population of 30, 16, 930 (2001 census). The city shares its geographical contours with Orissa, Bilaspur, Raigarh and Bastar. Raipur possesses a total of about 58 industrial units within its premises. Since the city is surrounded by the perennial river of Mahanadi, hence the agricultural lands of the city are quite fertile and boasts of commendable production every year. The major crops of Raipur are pulses, wheat, paddy, udad, peas and lakh-tiwara, among others. Soyabeen, alsi and groundnut are some of the prime oilseeds that are grown in Raipur. Animal husbandry is another major economic activity of Raipur which includes poultry farming and livestock. Also, rich reserve of Lime is found in abundance in Raipur city of Chhattisgarh. In the education front, capital city of Chhattisgarh possesses 2859 numbers of primary schools, 142 higher secondary schools, 19 colleges, 23 technical institutes and 61 adult education centers. The infrastructure of Raipur comprises of 19 railway heads, one airport and properly built highways that collectively connect the place with other states of India. Providing continuous power supply to 2033 number of villages, the electricity department of Raipur is proceeding towards more developed phases of electrification projects. The common language which is spoken by all the local people of Raipur is Chhattisgarhi. Surti, teeja, gouri-goura, pola and hareli are the biggest festivals of Raipur all of which are associated with a distinct past. As a tourist spot, Raipur - capital of Chhattisgarh - flaunts quite a number of attractive destinations like that of rajnandgaon, durg, jagadalpur, jabalpur, bhilai, bhopal and bilaspur. Undoubtedly, Chhattisgarh Capital City presents a splendid manifestation of traditional beauty, industrial advancement and contemporary progress, all under one common canopy of Raipur. Last Updated on: 10/6/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule