Services | National Portal of India Skip to main content   Add to Favourite -A A +A     Hindi Sign In Sign Up Search Archive Mobile APP for Android Mobile version Sitemap Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communications Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Home Affairs & Enforcement Housing Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms PeopleSpeak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance Profile History States of India My India My Pride National Symbols Culture & Heritage People and Lifestyle Places to Visit Natural Wonders Where to stay Modes of Travel Travel Advisory Travel Agents You are here : Home > Services Services This section links File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate Services This section provides you information and useful links to avail various Citizen Services, offered by the Union and State/UT Governments of India. We are committed to adding more such Services as and when they come into effect with a view to providing the best online platform to the Users, keeping pace with the changing time and trend. Keep visiting this section for new updates. File/Lodge This section will help you file and lodge your complaints and grievances related to all government services, schemes and other initiatives. You can also lodge an FIR to police station online for an... details of File/Lodge ... Avail Services You can get comprehensive information on how to avail online services provided by the Central, State and Local Government institutions. This section will help you get access to various online servi... details of Avail Services ... Apply This section guides users to apply for any Government service, scheme, job etc. Users can apply for the PAN card, TAN card, passport and other government services. Forms and information on online a... details of Apply ... Book With the help of this section, users can book their tickets for various transport facilities such as airlines, trains, buses and ships. Detailed information on reservation of hotel rooms, guest hou... details of Book ... Check/Track If you want to check or track the status of your application for any Government service, this section will guide you. You can check status of your train booking, hotel reservation, passport applica... details of Check/Track ... Obtain Get information on how to obtain various types of certificates, licences and documents which are provided by the Government agencies. Details about obtaining birth certificate, caste certificate, t... details of Obtain ... Register Under this section, users can register themselves with different Government websites to avail various services. Information on registration facilities for scholarship, vehicle, employment exchange,... details of Register ... Get Help (Helpline) This section gives you information on different helpline services offered by the Government agencies. These helplines are telephone and SMS based services which offer help to the callers regarding... details of Get Help (Helpline) ... Write Back If you wish to give feedback, comments or suggestions on Government Departments or services, this section will help you do so. You can submit online feedback form to the concerned Department or Mi... details of Write Back ... Donate With the help of this section, users can donate for a cause or relief funds of various Central and State Governments. You can donate to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund, Chief Ministers’ Relief Fun... details of Donate ... Post/Seek Users can submit a query, request, feedback and suggestion related to all services provided by the Central, State and Local Government institutions. You can submit a query through online fillable f... details of Post/Seek ... Online Services This section facilitates citizens to avail fully online services offered by the Central and State/UT Government authorities. With the help of this section you can avail the Government services thro... details of Online Services ... 1 of 1 Search this section Type Here What's New Check daily Water storages of dams in Maharashtra Apply online to give up your LPG subsidy Apply online for Travel Trade Recognition Most Viewed in This Section All Search your name in voters list Check your Aadhaar card status online Apply to transfer your EPF account online Update your Aadhaar card data Check your EPF balance Check your EPF account Passbook Know your PAN Check EPF claim status About the Portal Contact us Feedback Help Link to Us Newsletter Tell a Friend Website Policy Accessibility Statement Visitor Summary Topics Agriculture Art & Culture Commerce Communication Defence Education Environment & Forest Finance & Taxes Food & Public Distribution Foreign Affairs Governance & Administration Health & Family Welfare Housing Home Affairs & Enforcement Industries Infrastructure Information & Broadcasting Labour & Employment Law & Justice Power & Energy Rural Science & Technology Social Development Transport Travel & Tourism Youth & Sports Services Online Services File/Lodge Post/Seek Avail Services Apply Book Check/Track Obtain Register Get Help (Helpline) Write Back Donate My Government Constitution of India Government Directory Indian Parliament Publications Who's Who Acts/Rules Schemes Documents Forms People Speak People Groups Community Life Cycle e-Governance Initiatives Mission Mode Projects National e-Governance Plan India at a Glance This is the National Portal of India, developed with an objective to enable a single window access to information and services being provided by the various Indian Government entities. The content in this Portal is the result of a collaborative effort of various Indian Government Ministries and Departments, at the Central/State/District level. This Portal is Mission Mode Project under the National E-Governance Plan, designed and maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC), DeitY, MoCIT, Government of India. Last reviewed and updated on 21 May, 2015