Campus Safety Skip to main content University Home About OSU Academics Faculty / Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Campus Safety Directory Calendar Campus Map Weather Quicklinks Safety Police Env Health & Safety Parking & Transit Training OSU Campus Status: Regular Operating Hours Prescribed Burn Units Oklahoma State University is set to begin prescribed burns over 12,000 acres west of Stillwater. The burns are the second step in OSU’s ongoing plan to rid the area of the extremely invasive and problematic Eastern red cedars. Prescribed burn plan for Tuesday May 26th OSU will conducting a scheduled burn of hay piles Tuesday, May 26 in the area northeast of the intersection of HWY 51 and Range Rd. View unit section detail: May 26th Burn Location Full News Release Prescribed Burn Unit Map Safety Links Digital Citizenship Have fun. Digital media and apps are designed to encourage engagement and interaction. Use it to build others up, instead of tearing them down. Be a part of the conversation. There is value in diversity and sharing different ideas and perspectives. Recent Scam Warnings Oklahoma State University is warning the campus of several apparent scams targeting the university community. Prescribed Burn Units Oklahoma State University is set to begin prescribed burns over 12,000 acres west of Stillwater. The burns are the second step in OSU’s ongoing plan to rid the area of the extremely invasive and problematic Eastern red cedars. Cowboy Alert System Important Phone Numbers Campus Maps Safety and Fire Information Fire Personal Safety Utility Failure When Driving While Walking or Jogging Property Protection Athletic Facilities Residential Life Police Activity Summaries Weather Safety Cold Weather T-Storms and Tornadoes Earthquake Safety Severe Weather Refuge Locations Emergency Preparedness Cowboy Alert Sign Up Shots Fired Video Resources Evacuation Crisis Response Guide Health and Wellness Health Services America's Healthiest Campus Counseling Services Employee Assistance Mental Health Alcohol & Drug Abuse Tobacco Free Campus Who to Call? Emergency: 911 Non-emergency: 405-744-6523 Campus Police Report Hazards Student Conduct Important Phone Numbers Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine Ethics Point Accessibility Legal and Trademarks Safety Webmaster © 2015 - Oklahoma State University | All rights reserved