Chini Ka Rauza Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Chini Ka Rauza Chini Ka Rauza Chini Ka Rauza: It is a funerary monument situated at a distance of one km from the tomb of Itmad ud Daulah, on the east of the river Yamuna. It was constructed in 1635. Tomb of Allama Afzal Khan Mullah: It houses the tomb of a poet-scholar by the name of Allama Afzal Khan Mullah. He was the Prime Minister during the reign of Shah Jahan. Inner view of dome: The dome inside the Chini Ka Rauza is built in the Afghan style and is decked with Islamic inscriptions. On one side of the dome there are seven concentric rings. The wall of Chini Ka Rauza: Chini Ka Rauza is a symbol of Indo-Persian architecture adorned with shiny chini or colorful tiles. The walls have floral designs made of embellished fragments of tiles. About Chini Ka Rauza is an important monument in Agra. The name has been acquired because of the glazed-tile ornamentation that is believed to have been brought all the way from China. What makes the monument significant is the artwork and colour embellishments on it. It is the tomb that is dedicated to Allama Afzal Khan, who was the Prime Minister and poet during the times of Shah Jahan. The place is located very close to the world famous Taj Mahal in the city of Agra, Uttar Pradesh. It is only one km from Itimad ud Daulah's Tomb and is situated in the Itmadpur town in Agra. The city of Agra is around 200 km from the capital of India, Delhi. The tomb looks over the Yamuna River. History Chini Ka Rauza was built in 1635 during the period of Shah Jahan. It is a funerary monument built in the memory of the great poet and scholar Allama Afzal Khan. It is also among the first monuments to be decorated with glazed tile work. From this it derived its name, as porcelain is also known as Chini Mitti (Chinese clay) in many parts of India. It is said that Allama Afzal Khan built the tomb during his lifetime. Architecture As the name suggests, the monument is made with tiles of fine china and mud. The tomb itself is built in Afghan style and is the only monument in India with Persian architecture. The whole building was built with colorful tiles and brown stones in rectangular shape. The tomb was splendid and the walls have various Islamic inscriptions written on them. Originally the tomb had two main gates, one in the north and the other in the south. It was a three-storied tower in octagonal shape near the ghat. But most of it is now in the ruins and only the main tomb survives. The unique architecture of the tomb is evident in the interior and the exterior. Colourful embellishments are found in the brackets, chajja and balconies. The arches are decorated with intricate designs and have orange and blue tiles. The whole tomb was decorated with colourful tiles and was a masterpiece in itself. When to visit One can visit Chini Ka Rauza during the winters, when the climate is pleasant for a day's trip to explore and experience the magnificence of the monument. Winters begin from November and are quite pleasant during the day. One can visit from November till March. Summers are very hot, but if you can tolerate the heat here, you should visit the place. The place is open from morning till evening, on all days. The monument may be closed during local holidays and national holidays. Therefore, one has to get the right information before leaving for a visit to Chini Ka Rauza. There is no entry fee, so visitors can explore the place for free. Last Updated on : January 16, 2014 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule