Chandigarh Home » Chandigarh   Chandigarh Chandigarh Map Location Map Outline Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Metro Map Chandigarh Ward Map चंडीगढ़ का नक्शा Localities Burail DLF Mullanpur Madhya Marg Mohali Sector 26 more.. Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Chandigarh Places to visit in Chandigarh Wildlife Sanctuaries Shanti Kunj Rock Garden Hotels in Chandigarh How to reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Chandigarh Colleges Schools Ubersichtskarte von   Chandigarh Stadtplan von Chandigarh       Chandigarh About Chandigarh Location Map Chandigarh Map Chandigarh Travel Map Chandigarh is the first ever planned city in India. It was planned by the French architect Le Corbusier. The city tops the union territories of India and is significant as it has the highest per capita income as compared to other union territories of the country. Being a well-planned city, it has been included in the list of world renowned cities and for its quality of life. Chandigarh is a prestigious city as it is the capital of two states, Punjab and Haryana. Today, it is recognized as a city of modern India. You can say it is an example of modernization brought together with nature preservation. A rare example lies in the trees and plants that are included in planning of its construction. The city is known to be cleanest in the country according to the reports. It permits only those industries to flourish that do not pollute the air. That is why you find the air of Chandigarh to be fresh and free of pollution. The city was constituted on 1 November 1966. Since its inception, it has been a significant city in the whole of North India. Due to the beautiful planning and architecture, you can see that tourism has also flourished and has become an important tourist hub in North India. Facts on Chandigarh Official Website www.chandigarh.nic.in Date of Formation (Declared a Union Territory) Nov 1, 1966 Area 114 sq km Density 9252/Km2 Total Population (2011) 1,055,450 Males Population (2011) 580,663 Females Population (2011) 474,787 No. of District 1 Capital Chandigarh Rivers Patiala-Ki-Rao Forests & National Park Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary Languages Hindi, Punjabi, English State Animal Indian Grey Mangoose State Bird Indian Grey Hornbill State Tree Mango State Flower Dhak Flower Neighbours State Punjab, Haryana Net State Domestic Product (2011) 128634 Literacy Rate (2011) 87.07% Females per 1000 males 818 Assembly constituency 0 Parliamentary constituency 1 History of Chandigarh The history of the place dates back to 8000 years, when it was first inhabited by the Harappans, who are known to be among the earliest civilizations. It was a prosperous place during medieval times and a part of the Punjab Province. After independence from British rule, Punjab was divided into West and East Punjab in 1947. After partition, the East Punjab did not have a capital as Lahore was given to Pakistan. Therefore, Chandigarh was planned in order to give Punjab a capital. So, at the foothills of the Shivalik, the location was sought out for Chandigarh. The city was built under the orders of prominent officers and the Prime Minister of India. But there were many hurdles before the actual city came up. A committee was set up to choose a good site for the city. The place was chosen after considering various aspects like climatic conditions, military vulnerability, water provision, etc. After the formation of Haryana, both the states wanted a capital. So, Chandigarh, due to the proximity and the significance that it had achieved, became the capital of both the states. Demography of Chandigarh According to the 2011 census, Chandigarh population is 10,55,450 people. The density of population is 9252 persons per square kilometer. The sex ratio is 818 females per 1000 males. This states that it has one of the lowest sex ratios in the country. The literacy rate is 86.43%, which is quite high as compared to the rest of the country. Children comprise about 10% of the population. The city is composed of people from various religions like Hindu, Sikh, Christians and Muslims. The Hindu population is the largest followed by Sikhism. Chandigarh is extremely progressive and has almost 90% of developed area. Most of the people live in urban areas, while only 2% live in villages. The areas of concern are female literacy and female sex ratio. The government is taking measures to improve the condition of females here. In rural areas the female sex ratio is very unfortunate, which needs improvement. Geography of Chandigarh Chandigarh is located at the foothills of the Shivalik range of the Himalayas. It is around 321 meters above sea level. It is located at 30 degree 14 N latitude and 76 degree 14 E longitudes. It has fertile soil and produces crops in abundance. The land here comprises fertile alluvial soils and on the surface you find boulders, gravel, clays, silt, sand, pebbles and bricks. The union territory comprises 5 towns and around 25 villages. There is also one Tehsil and community development blocks. The capital is subtropical in nature and is characterized by hot summers, unreliable rainfall and cool winters. The temperature varies in nature and can be experienced from -1 degree Celsius to 46 degree Celsius. Winters also bring frosts with them. It experiences sub-tropical continental monsoon climate. The annual rainfall is about 1100 mm. The entire city is drained by seasonal rivulets like the Sukhna Choe and the Patiali Rao. Regarding the flora and fauna of the place, you can see a large number of water holes, and good plantations along with natural regeneration of various species and ideal habitat for wildlife. A variety of trees, herbs, shrubs, grasses and climbers can be found in Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary as well as mammals, birds and reptiles. Besides, you get to see migratory birds from Siberia and Japan. Today a vast expansion of 3245 hectares has been converted under forest cover and is now a haven for wildlife. The place also has two national reserve forests and habitat for endangered species. Economy of Chandigarh As Chandigarh is recognized as the base of three different governments, it has become the major government employer in the region. Most of the population here works in government offices. The capital also has around 15 medium to large industries along with public sector enterprises. There are around 2500 units of small scale industries. It is an emerging outsourcing and IT services hub. It has plenty of industries that manufacture paper, sanitary ware, machine tools, basic metals, auto parts, pharmaceuticals and electrical appliances. There are plenty of industries relating to food products as well. Due to the incredible infrastructure, Chandigarh today has many industries and factories. It has better connectivity and communication system. Although the city was not planned to be an industrial hub, it has become quite prominent in this sector. The tourism sector has also grown tremendously and is now very popular among the Indians as well as people aboard. Due to this the income of the city has increased and contributed a lot to its total economy. It is also known to have the higher per capita income as compared to few other major cities of the country. As far as industries are concerned paper manufacturing, basic metals, sanitary ware, auto parts, machine tools, pharmaceuticals and electrical appliances alloys and machinery are the important industries in Chandigarh. Other industries are related to food products. Government and politics of Chandigarh Chandigarh serves as a capital of Haryana and Punjab, which is why it is administered separately. It is recognized as a union territory of India. The head of its administration is the Governor who is also known as the Administrator and is appointed by the President of India. He is vested with most of the executive powers. The administration is under the home ministry of India. The union territory has its own parliamentary constituency and covers the entire Chandigarh. It is the legislative assembly of Haryana and Punjab states as well. Various bodies have been created to look after the different sectors of administration like education, social welfare, vigilance, environment, housing, animal husbandry, excise and taxation, health, food and supplier and urban planning. Chandigarh is under the Ministry of Home Affairs. In the position on the Advisory, a senior officer belonging to the IAS service is the second in command. The officer belongs to the AGMU cadre of IAS. The Deputy Commissioner belongs to the IAS and controls the general administration of the union territory. The Senior Superintendent of Police or the IPS controls the law and order here. There are various political parties in Chandigarh that look after the governance and politics of the city. The Indian National Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and Bahujan Samaj Party are some of the political parties. Culture of Chandigarh The union territory is known for its folk dances and music. The rituals and traditions carried out are mostly related to Punjabi culture and also to the Hindu, Sikh and Muslim culture. The local culture comprises rich food, festivals, music and dance, religious practice and rituals. The dances here depict the liveliness of the people here. Bhangra, gidda, julli, sammi, teeyan are some of the famous folk dances. Major festivals celebrated here by the locals are baisakhi, gurpurab, lohri, tika, raksha bandhan and many more. Festivals comprise a variety of food, sweet preparations and puja. Its culture is quite modern and you can see people from various cultures as well. People from all over the country have settled in Chandigarh, so you can see a vast mixture of cultures and traditions. People here speak Hindi or Punjabi or a combination of both. The city also has a cultural complex that showcases its art and culture. The traditional food here is typical Punjabi and very spicy too. Vegetarian and non vegetarian foods are prepared here with great variety and taste. The costumes here are similar to that of people in other parts of the states. However during festivals or important events, men love to wear sherwani and women wear lehenga choli or salwar kameez or sari. Language of Chandigarh The location of Chandigarh is in North India and the language which is popular here is Punjabi. Hindi is also widely spoken here. But, due to its developed infrastructure, the city has attracted a vast number of people from other states. Being a multicultural city, it has given rise to multilingual atmosphere. As it is also the capital of Haryana, Haryanvi is also spoken by most of the people here. Most of the people converse in both Hindi and English. People from different states have to converse in these two languages if they do not speak Punjabi. English is the language used in government offices. The official language of the city is Punjabi. The youth of Chandigarh speak a mix of Hindi and English. Education in Chandigarh Education in the union territory is of very high quality and in the form of informative and interesting methods that provide a wholesome approach to education. The universities of Chandigarh have provided quality education that has churned out students who are highly skilled and competent. The government has taken initiatives to provide the best education to every child in the city within one kilometer from the child's residence. You can find a large number of government schools as well as private schools here. Many privately managed schools have earned a grant-in-aid for those who are recognized as secular schools. The education here comprises tertiary level and is looked after by the education department of Chandigarh. There are few government colleges here that are great in terms of infrastructure, campus, auditoria and sports. The colleges are affiliated to Punjab University. One can get education in various streams like commerce, arts and science. Computer science and business administration courses are also provided. The colleges here offer post graduation courses in many different subjects and also courses and education in instrumental music, public administration, etc. Vocational education is also popular with colleges in Chandigarh. The courses are parallel to mainstream education. They come in sections like health, commerce, para-medicine and engineering. Tourism of Chandigarh Located at the foothills of the grand Shivalik range, the city has earned a good name as a tourist destination for its great planning, the clean environment, the grand structures and the magnificent gardens. It is an incredible city, with many sectors that are intertwined by a great network of roads. Therefore roaming around is not a problem at all. Today, it takes a prominent place as a tourist destination of India. Nature lovers will love the gardens and the reservoir in the city. Some of the attractions here are very popular among tourists. The valley can be described as a garland of gardens. Many people love to take leisurely walks here. Rock Garden is located in Sector 1 and comprises exquisite artwork made out of waste. The garden has various sculptures made with discarded materials of various types. Sukhna Lake is a spectacular man-made lake. It also serves as a great picnic spot and is located in a very picturesque region. The climate here is serene, which makes it an ideal place to hear the humming of birds. Transport of Chandigarh Chandigarh is well connected to other states and cities by road, rail and air. The public bus services are managed by the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) and are operated from the Inter State Bus Terminals (ISBT) in Sector 17 and 43. Inter state buses to the neighbouring states such as Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh are also operated by the CTU in the city. By road, it is also well connected by NH 22 and NH 21. The Chandigarh Railway Station is connected to many major cities in India. In the Indian Railways network, it falls under the Northern Railway zone. There are direct flights from Chandigarh Airport to cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and many others. The Chandigarh Metro Rail is also proposed in the city which will be operational soon in few years. WBST271114T EBAKB011214 Blogs about Chandigarh Kirron Kher’s Stunning Victory in Chandigarh : The Lok Sabha seat of Chandigarh promised an exciting contest, but that it would turn out to be so exciting was hardly anybody's guess. P.K. Bansal, the sitting MP who prided himself on having this seat as his stronghold, was humbled as the public chose the BJP candidate Kirron Kher this time. The result merits attention: Kher beat not only Bansal but also Gul Panag, the AAP candidate who many believed would sweep the election… read more... Chhat Bir Zoo: The Lion Safari Zoo near Chandigarh : Location:17 Km from Chandigarh, Punjab Roaming around with the lions is a daring fantasy that not many would think of living out.  But what if I say that it is as easy as a pie! The Chhatbir Zoo in the vicinity of Chandigarh is a wildlife heaven that offers to you a unique opportunity to go on a Lion Safari. Once a huge patch of raw scrubland, it was transformed into a magnificent zoological garden… read more... Open Hand Monument: The Official Emblem of Chandigarh : Location: Sector 1, Chandigarh, Punjab Every time I dropped by Chandigarh, I remember to have seen a unique hand-like structure turning round and round with the wind. Inquisitive to know what this structure stood for, I inquired and was amazed to know that such a small monument had a very big meaning attached to it. Standing at a height of 26 metres from the ground, the Open Hand Monument is located in the Capitol Complex… read more... Explore the Fantasy World at the Rock Garden of Chandigarh : Location: Chandigarh, Punjab Chandigarh, the city beautiful, is the proud owner of an extraordinarily fascinating destination which glorifies the power of human creation. It is the magnificent Nek Chand Rock Garden located near the Sukhna Lake. Sprawling across 40 acres in area, this place is a truly exceptional creation of man. This unique Rock Garden has been embellished with sculptures and art objects built entirely by using industrial and domestic scrap material. This bizarre idea… read more... The Beautiful Sukhna Lake : Location: Chandigarh, Punjab The face of modern India, Chandigarh, is not only the first but the best planned city in India. Apart from being the most popular city of North India, this city is also the best example of modernization subsisting with nature. A place where you would see greenery as much as the modernized structures. The planners of the city gifted the city with a beautiful lake for a quiet union with nature. A serene… read more... Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 About Chandigarh Lat Long Localities Hospitals Accommodation Hotels IT Companies Property Property Dealers Chandigarh Builders Chandigarh Map Location Map Outline Map Tehsil Map Ambala Chandigarh Expressway Chandigarh Metro Map Road Map River Map Railway Map             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule