e-AgroCare - Redesigned farm machinery - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop e-AgroCare – Redesigned farm machinery Home e-AgroCare – Redesigned farm machinery Re-designed existing farm machinery to resolve the errors and improve productivity. Also manufacturers and supplies organic farming inputs e-Agro Care Machineries and Equipments was established in Feb 2011 with a mission to safeguard the interest of the farmers by helping them increase the volume of agricultural production, reduce dependency on animal power and labor. To make it possible like-minded three professionals Mr. Bhupesh Mishra, Mr. Rahul Deshmukh and Mr. Sunil Patil joined hands and started the company at Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Company has three farm machinery and fourteen organic farming inputs in its’ product list. All products are sold under the brand name e-AgroCare. It took 2 years to re-design and launch the products in market. Mini Tillers, Inter-Cultivators, Power Tiller/Power Weeder, “These machines were available in the market prior to our launch, but were not doing well. With the objective to resolve the issues faced by farmer when using these farm machineries, we identified the errors and redesigned to develop multipurpose, multitasking machines,” says Mr. Bhupesh Mishra and adds, “All machines are redesigned by our technical expert Mr. Sunil Patil.” Redesigning was required as, “We found blades were damaged so replaced it with better quality of 65 MN 0.6% carbon. We have made rotavater adjustable so that it can run based on crop width, PTO shaft was incorporated in the machines to connect HTP, water pump easily,” he explains. Also it was observed there was a slippage in the chain and belt hence it was brought in direct transmission through shaft. Company has design patent for these improvised machines. “We applied for the patent online all by ourselves without any help of consultants,” he informs. After one year from the application date, patent was received. Farm mechanization is one of the packages of green revolution technology. Citing an example Mr. Mishra adds, “If 2 labor remove weeds manually in one acre of farm it takes 2 working days whereas same work is done by machine in just 3 hours. Farm mechanization completely removes the labor work.”Machines are available in different capacities 4 HP, 6 HP and 9 HP, used for farm area of half acre onwards. These are diesel run machines having the fuel efficiency of 0.75liter/ hour execution. Machine cost depends on engine capacity. Commonly it ranges between Rs. 65000 to 95000/- When asked about the subsidy Mr. Mishra informs that 4 HP machines has approximately 30% subsidy in Gujarat and Maharashtra. After the purchase, “Our mechanic visits customer to train him about the operations and maintenance,” he adds. Machines are maintenance free for atleast 2 years if customer operates and maintains the machine as per the given company guidelines. “We also provide small spare part box which helps customer to resolve minor issues,” he shares. Service camps are arranged thrice a year. Mr. Mishra says, “In addition, our people constantly call the customer and get their feedback. In case of breakdown, if it is major, they need to send the machine to our service center and if in warranty we replace it else problem is rectified on chargeable basis.” Company primarily operates in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu &Kashmir. Its’ products are also available in other parts of the country. Products are sold through company appointed dealers/distributors. Product promotion and awareness, “We participate in agri exhibitions and place newspaper ads. In addition our marketing team remains in the market for customer interaction. Also we have a demo team for giving live demo, based on farmer request or depending on the potential our demo team gives the demo.” New product launch is expected in next 6 months in machinery segment. “Our R&D team works on the new requirement from the farmer if any. New machines will be in the market in coming months,” informs Mr. Mishra. e-Agro Care Machineries and Equipments also supplies organic farming inputs namely array of humic acid, potassium humates, seaweed extract powder, brassinolides – 90% tech, bio-granules, amino acid formulation (20%) – soya based, fulvic acid and folic acid. Sharing future plans he says, “We want to reach to farmers in India as well as abroad. Export is also on cards. Mostly we will start exporting our products to Asian and African countries in coming 2 months.” Prior to establishing e-Agro Care Machineries and Equipments, Mr. Mishra was working with Cognizant in London. He shares, “As I had some agriculture farmland with me I started learning more about organic farming. In the transit I met Rahul and Sunil in 2010. Since then we are working together.” Mr. Sunil Patil has eight years experience in design and manufacturing of agricultural & earthmoving machinery. He has indigenously designed machines like dozers, loaders and backhoes which are used for various agricultural as well as industrial applications. He holds Mechanical Engineer and MBA from Pune University. Mr. Rahul Deshmukh, Chief Marketing Head is responsible for marketing, advertising and promotional staff and activities. Contact details- e-AgroCare Machineries and Equipments Pvt. Ltd. D-45, 5-Star MIDC Industrial Area, Shendra, Aurangabad – 431136, Maharashtra – India Phone: +91-240-2622477, 2486656 Email: info@eagrocare.com Website: http://eagrocare.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 8+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > e-AgroCare – Redesigned farm machinery Related – articles, consultants, downloads Anusham Farm Machinery & Power Equipments Ratnagiri Impex – farm equipment and machinery Milltec Machinery – grain processing, storage and packaging machinery Jeevika Food Machinery You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water