Assocham India :: Thought Leadership Thought Leadership The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India "The Knowledge Chamber: Serving the Nation since 1920" Home About Mission History Structure Persons at the helm President Quotable Quote Vision Membership Membership Forms Services To Members At A Glance Online Registration Services Events Forthcoming Events Recent Events National Councils Gallery Publications Contact Us Membership Complain / Feedback Publication Management Physical Address with Map Overseas Branches Thought Leadership 1) Agenda for Economic Growth "The agenda highlights ASSOCHAM's perspective on the policy imperatives for faster economic progress, achievement of inclusive growth and securing strategic national interests. It is ASSOCHAM's endeavour that these proposals contribute to the agenda of national governance." 2) Pre budget recommendations for the Finance Minister "The Pre-Budget Recommendations build on Mr. Rana Kapoor's interaction with the Hon'ble Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley during the Pre-Budget Meeting with Industry Leaders. The recommendations highlight key action points on financial regulations and policies directed towards sectors with high growth and employment creation potential. Additionally, they propose steps towards fiscal consolidation, strategic PSU disinvestment and tax administration." 3) 'Believe in India' Advertisement campaign: "With an aim to actualise India's vision of achieving sustainable and inclusive development, ASSOCHAM has launched a National Print Media Campaign under the 'Believe in India' banner, across critical sectors of national and economic importance, supported by YES BANK as the Knowledge Partner." a. Affordable Housing - ASSOCHAM recommends Affordable Housing policy measures to ensure every Indian family has a HOME by 2022, which will create a multiplier effect on improving the standard of living and making cities more comfortable, efficient and secure. b. Urban Infrastructure - Urban Infrastructure is India's sustainable growth engine and urban cities will be the harbingers of growth leading to creation of 70% new jobs and contribution of 70% of India's GDP by 2030 c. Agriculture - Agriculture has the potential to generate significant employment and grow at 8%; thus it is imperative that a enabling policy environment, appropriate technology and supply chain efficiencies are established to address inflation, boost investment and ensure food and nutritional security in the Nation. d. Tourism & Hospitality (ad yet to be released) e. Tax (ad yet to be released) - ASSOCHAM recommends tax simplification for better governance and boosting economic growth. Increasing efficiency, transparency and incentivisation in tax administration along with expeditious dispute resolution and streamlining the redressal mechanism will positively enhance investor sentiment and business confidence 4) Thought Leadership Articles on Governance, Economic Development and Sustainability "A series of highly strategic and incisive thought leadership articles authored by Mr. Rana Kapoor, President, ASSOCHAM and Managing Director & CEO, YES BANK on the theme of Governance, Economic Development and Sustainability which are all critical pillars of inclusive growth has recently appeared in leading national publications." a) The road to Governance 2.0 (Hindu Business Line on June 5, 2014) b) The mandate is for Bold Economic Reforms (The Economic Times on June 5, 2014) c) Invest now to reduce our carbon footprint (Hindustan Times on June 5, 2014) YES BANK Knowledge Report 'Make in India' - Pressing the Pedal ASSOCHAM US Chapter organized its maiden Investment Forum on Fast tracking India’s Growth Story with Confidence & Conviction, with YES BANK as the Knowledge Partner, on May 14 in New York. At this highly important international initiative President, ASSOCHAM along with Mr. Rohit Kapoor, Chair US Chapter, Dr. Mukhesh Aghi, President USIBC and Mr. Rajiv Khanna, President IACC, jointly released a YES BANK Knowledge Report: “’Make in India’ – Pressing the Pedal”.  Click here to download the report.   Photo Gallery read More Publications read More Membership read More Events read More ASSOCHAM in News read More National Councils read More Blog read More Research Papers read More Tweets by @followassocham RSS Feed Widget ASSOCHAM Across the World India Japan London UAE USA            The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India ASSOCHAMM Corporate Office,5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi - 110021 Phone: 46550555(Hunting Line) Fax: 01123017008/9 Email: assocham@nic.in Copyrights ©2014 assocham.org, All Rights Reserved.