OurCrop - ERP - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products OurCrop – ERP OurCrop – ERP Contact mahiti directly Request Price Description Product Description Our Crop is an MIS solution that supports the principle of sustainable agriculture. OurCrop can store Farmer and Group details and can analyse impact of sustainable agriculture on farmer’s lives. The system can also store details of trainings given and feedback from Farmers. Our Crop is suitable for Enterprises and organisations engaged in Sustainable Agricultural Practices, Producer Organisation or Commodity Cooperative Development Project. • An ERP for the Producer Organisations working with large number of farmers or farmer groups with single or multiple crop production. • OurCrop helps in managing, monitoring and evaluating performance of the producer as an individual or a member of producer group. • It is helpful to the Institutions and Organisations engaged with Agriculture related projects that require to track, monitor and assess the project activities. • Recently it has been implemented for four organisations in Eastern Africa, two in Kenya and two in Tanzania. • The farmer members of those organisations are producers of Coffee, Fruits and other agricultural produce. • Our Crop is integrated with android app to carry out transaction in the field in offline condition. • It has facility to disseminate information to the users through SMS or even IVR integration. • Procurement from the producer / farmers in the field against predetermined rate and quality parameters. • User friendly configuration to set the quality parameters. • Compatiblity with other handheld devices to produce printed receipt in offline. • An accounting module to carry out regular financial transaction including share, and Profit sharing by the members. • Standard accounts report like Day Book, Trial Balance, Balance Sheet etc. • Integration of Multiple stock points with multiple processing units. • Integrate micro credit operations. • Planning procurement against supply. • Customisation to any language* • Customisation to specific business model. Contact : Prasenjit Sen Mobile: 91 97 42 872408 Office: 91 80 49 058444 email: prasenjit@mahiti.org If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: MIT1 . Category: Technology/Software . Tags: it , technology . Social share Related Products Free Contact expert directly Request Price Quick View Technology/Software FarmERP Biotech software solution Free Contact expert directly Request Price Quick View Technology/Software FarmERP – software solution Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging plant growth promoter plant growth stimulator Potassium Rotavator seeds soil soil nutrients soil testing kits sprayer stevia technology tiller tractors training vegetables water testing weeder wires Recently Viewed Products 11KvA Biomass Gasifier Virgin Coconut oil plant & machineries STOPPER - Organic Animal Repellent Animal Repellent Organic Dried Curry leaf Rs.25.00 Nicoderma DAIRY GOLD Protein meal for dairy cattle