Pune Home » Pune   Pune Pune City Map Pune Metro Map North East Pune South West Pune North West Pune South East Pune Pune District Map Pune Road Map Pune River Map Pune Tehsil Map Pune Railway Map Pune Tourist Map Bengaluru to Pune Route Chennai to Pune Route Hyderabad to Pune Route Goa to Pune Route Kolhapur to Pune Route Nashik to Pune Route Places of Interest in Pune Pune University Symbiosis Pune Software Companies in Pune Hotels in Pune Pune Weather Cinema Halls Location Pune Airport Tourist Attractions in Pune Retailers & Shops Shopping Areas Pune STD Code Pune Pin Code Flights to Pune Flights from Pune Delhi to Pune Flights Jaipur to Pune Flights Ahmedabad to Pune Flights Bangalore to Pune Flights Mumbai to Pune Flights Hyderabad to Pune Flights Kolkata to Pune Flights Goa to Pune Flights       Pune Pune Map Print Email Save   Buy Now Pune Tourist Map Bengaluru to Pune Route Map Chennai to Pune Route Map Goa to Pune Route Map Hyderabad to Pune Route Map Kolhapur to Pune Route Map Nashik to Pune Route Map Pune City Map Surrounded with hills and lakes, the picturesque city of Pune is the pride of west India. It is the cultural capital of the state of Maharashtra . The cultural and intellectual capacity of Pune has earned it the title of being the 'Oxford of the East'. Pune has a long standing historical background. It is home to the legendary Raja Shivaji and also of the Peshwas who were a political influence during the age of the East India Company. The magnificent sea forts in Pune are an evidence of the historical past of this city. While in Pune, one can visit the following places: Osho Ashram : This is the famous institute of Rajneesh, the guru of meditation. The institute is located at 17 Koregoan Park and spread over a huge area. It holds classes on meditation. Shanivar Wada : This historic seven storied palace was built by Bajirao Peshwa I and was once of great political importance. The monumental structure was destroyed by fire. Some of the parts of the palace have survived the fire and are open to visitors. Shinde Chhatri : An architectural excellence, this is a memorial built and dedicated to Mahadji Shinde. It is located at a small distance from the race course in Pune. Pataleshwer Cave Temples : This cave is carved out of a single stone. It is located in the heart of the city. Prayers to the Lord Shiva are still offered here. Other touring places in Pune Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum Tribal Museum Gandhi National Memorial / Aga Khan Palace Vishrambaug Wada Bund Garden Saras Baug Parvati Hill Pune is connected by flight to Mumbai, Bangalore and Delhi . There are regular trains from Mumbai and other cities of Maharastra to Pune. From Mumbai, buses are also available that travel to Pune. The road from Pune to Mumbai over the western ghats is picturesque and the journey is very pleasant. Last Updated on 26 April 2013 Pune Locality Maps Alandi Road Ambegaon Budruk Anandnagar Aundh Aundh Road Balaji Nagar Baner Baner road Bhandarkar Road Bhavani Peth Bibvewadi Bopodi Budhwar Peth Bund Garden Road Camp Chandan Nagar Dapodi Deccan Gymkhana Dehu Road Dhankawadi Dhayari Phata Dhole Patil Road Erandwane Fatima Nagar Fergusson College Road Ganesh Peth Ganeshkhind Ghorpade Peth Ghorpadi Gokhale Nagar Gultekdi Guruwar peth Hadapsar Hadapsar Industrial Estate Hingne Khurd Jangali Maharaj Road Kalyani Nagar Karve Nagar Karve Road Kasba Peth Katraj Khadaki Khadki Kharadi Kondhwa Kondhwa Budruk Kondhwa Khurd Koregaon Park Kothrud Law College Road Laxmi Road Lulla Nagar Mahatma Gandhi Road Mangalwar peth Manik Bagh Market yard Model colony Mukund Nagar Mundhawa Nagar Road Nana Peth Narayan Peth Narayangaon Navi Peth Padmavati Parvati Darshan Pashan Paud Road Pirangut Prabhat Road Pune Railway Station Rasta Peth Raviwar Peth Sadashiv Peth Sahakar Nagar Salunke Vihar Sasson Road Satara Road Senapati Bapat Road Shaniwar Peth Shivaji Nagar Shukrawar Peth Sinhagad Road Somwar Peth Swargate Tilak Road Uruli Devachi Vadgaon Budruk Wadgaon Sheri Viman Nagar Vishrant Wadi Wagholi Wakadewadi Wanowrie Warje Yerawada Places to Visit in Pune Amusement Parks in Pune Gardens in Pune Religious Places in Pune Monuments in Pune Wildlife in Pune Museums in Pune Splash Mountain Saras Bagh Empress garden Peshwa Udyan Omkareshwar Temple Chaturshringi Temple Pataleshwar Cave Ganpati temple Parvati Hill and Temple Aga Khan Palace Osho Commune International Kasturba Samadhi Shivneri Fort Lal Mahal Shaniwar Wada Katraj Snake National Film Archive museum Hotels in Maharashtra Travel to Ajanta Travel to Aurangabad Travel to Ellora Travel to Khandala Travel to Lonavala Travel to Haji Ali Travel to Mumbai Travel to Nagpur Travel to Nashik Travel to Panchgani Travel to Pune Travel to Shirdi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule