Ai Squared Merges with GW Micro - Ai Squared - We've got accessibility covered Skip to Main Content Contrast show the high contrast version show the standard version Text size Learn how to change text size AI Squared, We've got accessibility covered. Products Dealers Store News Learning Support About Blog Go About Us Merger Contact Us Company History Management Our Customers Stimulus Social Networking Careers Current Career Opportunities Submit a Resume Partners How to Find Us Vermont Information Merger Ai Squared Merges with GW Micro We are thrilled to share the news with you that Ai Squared has merged with GW Micro.  This is very exciting for our industry; we will now be able to deliver an even wider range of computer access solutions to our customers who are low vision and blind. Here are some Q&A related to the merger or you can download a Word document that contains the press release. Company Related Questions Why did Ai Squared and GW Micro merge their companies? We believe that we are stronger together versus just partnering as we have in the past.  Our combined resources and technology will be focused on better serving the blind and low vision community. Will there be a new company name for the merged companies? The merged companies will be known as Ai Squared.  However, the GW Micro name will remain on the GW Micro website, products and other existing materials until they are rebranded with the Ai Squared name later this year. Will this merger change the focus and commitment to products developed by Ai Squared and GW Micro? Only in a positive way.  Among the primary goals of this merger are: (1) to combine our strengths and expertise to deliver better versions of our existing product lines as well as to develop new products; and (2) to deliver a robust family of products covering the complete spectrum of vision loss—i.e. from slight vision loss to total blindness. Will Ai Squared’s or GW Micro’s facilities and employees be relocated? No.  The Ai Squared and GW Micro facilities and employees will remain at their current locations. Will phone numbers, email addresses and website addresses for Ai Squared and GW Micro change? Some phone numbers are expected to change as a result of departments merging and other organizational changes.  GW Micro email addresses and website addresses (i.e. “gwmicro.com”) will eventually change over to Ai Squared addresses (i.e. “aisquared.com”).  We will notify our customers when these changes occur. Will the postal and shipping addresses for Ai Squared and GW Micro change? While the existing postal and shipping addresses are all expected to remain active, the address to use for certain types of mailings and shipments may change. We will notify our customers when these changes occur.  Sales and Support Related Questions Who should customers call to purchase Ai Squared and GW Micro products? For the immediate future, customers wanting to purchase Ai Squared products will need to contact the Ai Squared sales team (800-859-0270 or 802-362-3612 option #2), while customers wanting to purchase GW Micro products will need to contact the GW Micro sales team (260-489-3671).  Ai Squared and GW Micro products will ship separately from their respective facilities.  The two sales teams and shipping departments will be combined in the near future, allowing customers to conveniently contact one team to order all Ai Squared products and receive these products in one shipment from one location. Who should customers call for support on Ai Squared and GW Micro products? For the immediate future, customers needing support for Ai Squared products will need to contact the Ai Squared support team (802-362-3612 option #3), while customers needing support for GW Micro products will need to contact the GW Micro support team (260-489-3671). Dealer Related Question Will there be changes to the network of Ai Squared or GW Micro dealers? No, at least not for the immediate future.  Customers should continue calling their known Ai Squared or GW Micro dealer to order products.  Customers may also contact Ai Squared and GW Micro directly to order products. Product and Pricing Related Questions What products does Ai Squared offer? Ai Squared’s core product offerings consist of products designed for low-vision users, including ZoomText Magnifier, ZoomText Magnifier/Reader, ZoomText Mac, ZoomText ImageReader, ZoomText Keyboards, ZoomText Camera, and sitecues.  Descriptions and pricing for Ai Squared products can be found at www.aisquared.com/products and www.sitecues.com .  What products does GW Micro offer? GW Micro’s core product offerings consist of products for low-vision and blind users, including Window-Eyes, GWSocialEyes (an accessible client for Facebook), GWConnect (an accessible interface for Skype), Vocatex CCTVs, and a variety of scan and read products.  Descriptions and pricing for GW Micro products can be found at www.gwmicro.com . Do ZoomText and Window-Eyes work together? Yes, the current versions of ZoomText and Window-Eyes can already be used together. There are a few issues where ZoomText does not track what Window-Eyes is reading in web browsers and Microsoft Word, and some hotkey conflicts between the ZoomText and Window-Eyes, but we are working to fix those issues as quickly as possible. Note: GW Micro has a knowledge base article that provides instructions for resolving the ZoomText/Window-Eyes hotkey conflicts: http://www.gwmicro.com/Support/Knowledge_Base/?kbnumber=GWKB1089 . Will training be offered for using ZoomText and Window-Eyes together? Yes, we are developing training materials and courses on how to use ZoomText and Window-Eyes together. We do currently offer training for both products separately through ZoomText University and GW Micro’s Training Program . Will Window Eyes features be added to ZoomText and/or ZoomText features added to Window Eyes? We do have plans to leverage technologies and features in ZoomText and Window-Eyes, but we are not providing any details at this time. Will any of the current products from Ai Squared or GW Micro be discontinued? While the two companies currently offer some overlapping products, there are no plans at this time to discontinue any of these products. Will there be any price changes for the products from Ai Squared or GW Micro? At this time there are no plans to change pricing on our products. Will Ai Squared and GW Micro be introducing new products? Yes, new product offerings have been defined and will be in development soon.  Information about these new product offerings will be provided at a future date. Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office Related Questions What is the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office? Earlier this year, Microsoft and GW Micro announced an offer that provides a free version of Window-Eyes to all users of Microsoft Office 2010 or later (excluding the Starter Edition). For more information, go to www.windoweyesforoffice.com . Does the free version of Window Eyes (called Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office) only work with Microsoft Office? No.  The free version of Window Eyes is fully functional in all of your applications. Will the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office change as a result of the Ai Squared / GW Micro merger? Not at all.  Ai Squared, GW Micro and Microsoft are fully committed to the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office. What are the differences between the retail version of Window-Eyes and the free version available through the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office? The retail version of Window-Eyes provides the following additional benefits: Free technical support with an unlimited number of incidents Braille and large-print hotkey guides (English only) Installation CD and comprehensive audio tutorial Eloquence and Vocalizer speech synthesizers Ad-free experience for GW Micro’s accessible Skype client—“GW Connect” Customers can go to www.windoweyesforoffice.com for more information and FAQs about the free versus retail versions of Window-Eyes. How does a customer get the free version of Window-Eyes available through the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office? Customers can download Window-Eyes for free via the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office at www.windoweyesforoffice.com .  What are the support options for the free version of Window-Eyes available through the Window-Eyes Offer for Users of Microsoft Office? A variety of paid support options are available for the free version of Window-Eyes.  Information on these support plans can be found online at: https://www.gwmicro.com/Catalog/Support_and_Training_Services/ . Is Ai Squared going to make a similar deal with Microsoft to provide a free version of ZoomText? Microsoft and Ai Squared have had no discussions about such a deal and there are no future intentions by Ai Squared to offer ZoomText free to users of Microsoft Office. Home Products ZoomText Magnifier MagReader ZoomText on USB Tour Download Trial Upgrade Buy ZoomText Mac ZoomText Keyboard Key Features Buy Reassign Hot Keys ZoomText ImageReader Hardware Products Camera ZoomText Camera Stand ZoomText Express Features Buy System Requirements Compare Products Dealers United States Canada International Dealer Login Become a Dealer Store Learning ZoomText University Free Webinars ZoomText Certification Other Resources Low Vision Resources Agencies News Newsletter Unsubscribe Archive Events Press Releases In The News Multimedia Subscribe via RSS Support Remote Support Activation How to Activate Transfer License FAQ Manual Activation Contact Support Documentation ESP Overview Pricing Terms & Policies ESP Support Request SMA Forums Get Started Knowledge Base Register Your Product Release Notes Tutorial Updates ZoomText Express Support About Us Contact Us Company History Management Our Customers Stimulus Social Networking Careers Current Career Opportunities Submit a Resume Partners How to Find Us Vermont Information Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Accessibility Ai Squared 130 Taconic Business Park Road Manchester Center, Vermont 05255 Phone +1 (802) 362-3612 Toll Free +1 (800) 859-0270 Fax +1 (802) 362-1670 Sales sales@aisquared.com Support support@aisquared.com (c) 2014 Ai Squared, all rights reserved.