Bikaner City Map Home » Maps » Rajasthan Map » Bikaner City Map   Rajasthan Cities Jaipur Kota Jodhpur Jaisalmer Ajmer Udaipur Bikaner Alwar Amer Barmer Bharatpur Pali Sikar Nagaur                         more.. राजस्थान का नक्शा Rajasthan History and Geography Weather Rajasthan Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map                    (Hindi) Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Industrial Map Mineral Map Forest Map Jaipur Metro Map Economy Government Rajasthan Assembly Elections Parliamentary Constituencies Places to visit in Rajasthan Travel to Rajasthan Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Forts and Palaces Hotels in Rajasthan Jaipur Hotels Udaipur Hotels Mount Abu Hotels Jaisalmer Hotels Jodhpur Hotels Bikaner Hotels Ajmer Hotels                more... Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Jaipur Metro Map Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Rajasthan Rajasthani Recipes       Bikaner City Map Bikaner City Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing roads, hotels, hospitals and other places of interest in Bikaner City. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Bikaner, the desert city of Rajasthan draws large number of tourists for its picturesque golden sand dunes, striking red sandstone forts, stunning palaces and havelis and certainly its camel safaris. The city boasts of having the best camels and has the largest Camel research and breeding farm in the world, hence the name camel country. The camel festival is also a major tourist attraction. Location Bikaner is located in the northern part of Rajasthan and lies 316 kms from Jaipur, 240 km from Jodhpur and 330 km from and Jaisalmer . The desert city shares its boundary with Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur and even Pakistan. Connectivity Bikaner is well connected to other parts of the state and the country by air, rail and road. Air: The nearest airport is Jodhpur Airport. Rail: Bikaner is connected with Delhi, Jaipur and Jodhpur and other parts of India through rail network. Road: Bikaner is also accessible by roads and buses are available. Best Time to Visit Bikaner: The best time to visit Bikaner is in the winter months (i.e. November to February) when the weather is very pleasant. History Rao Bikaji, a Rathore prince founded Bikaner in 1488 AD by transforming the barren land Jangladesh into a striking city. Later with the initiative of Maharaja Ganga Singh, Bikaner became a noteworthy princely state. Bikaner was also an important trade route that was linked with China and Central Asia. Places to Visit Junagarh Fort - This fort was erected in1593 A.D by Raja Rai Singh, the illustrious general of the army of the Mughal emperor Akbar. The fortress is bounded by a moat and consists of 37 palaces and pavilions including Chandra Mahal, Phool Mahal and Karan Mahal. The museum within the fort encloses priceless miniature paintings and extraordinary antiques that are of great interest for art lovers. Lalgarh Palace -This majestic palace built by Maharaja Ganga Singh Ji in 1902 is a magnum opus in red sandstone. This architectural wonder was created by the fusion of Rajput, Mughal and European architecture and exhibits superb craftsmanship in the form of striking latticework and filigree work. Jain Haveli - Bikaner abounds in beautiful havelis- the ancient luxurious mansions with sprawling courtyards where the nobles or the affluent people of Rajasthan lived. These havelies belonged to the Kotharis, Rampurias,Vaids and Dagas and were located in the regions like Gogagate, Daddhon Ka Chowk and so on. Bhandeswari Jain Temple - This fifteenth century temple is the oldest shrine of Bikaner and is adorned with mirrorwork, frescos and gold leaf paintings. Apart from these other major tourist attractions are Camel Research and Breeding Farm, Gajner Palace, Deshnoke Temple, Ganga Golden Jubilee Museum, Shri Sadul Museum, and Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary. Bikaner Facts State Rajasthan District Bikaner District Headquarters Bikaner Tehsil/Taluk Bikaner Lat Long 28.016453, 73.311324 Area 28, 466 km2 Population as per 2011 647804 Official Languages Hindi & Marwadi Time zone IST (UTC+5:30) STD Code 0151 Transport Bus, Rail, Local Transport Vehicle registration RJ-07 Food and Cuisine Pakodi, Gatta ki Sabji, Khata, Papad, Mangodi, Buttermilk, Butter, Alu Bhujiya, Sweet Dishes, Chutney and Rabdi etc. Religion Hindus 78% Muslims15% Jains 4.7% Others 1.3% Festival International Camel Festival, Karni Mata Fair, Gangaur, Kapil Muni fair, Punarasar Fair, Kodamdesar Mela, Kolayat Mela, Siyana Bhairoon mela, Camel Festival, Aksaye Tritya or Akkha Teej, Kartik Poornima, Rammat, Pata etc Monuments Junagarh Fort, Ganga Singh Museum, Jain Haveli, Bhandeswari, Sadul Museum, Prachina Museum Places of interest Junagarh Fort, Fort Museum, Lalgarh Palace, Camel Breeding Farm, Shiv Bari Temple, Prachina Museum, Ganga Golden Jubilee Museum, Sadal Museum, Deshnok Temple, Laxmi Nath Temple, Prachina Museum, Kote Gate, Jain Temple Bhandasar, Jain Haveli, Lalgarh Palace, Mukam Temple, etc. Markets Kote Gate, Station Road, Junagarh Fort, Abhivyakti, MG Road, Gramin Haat, Gangashahar Bazaar etc. Hotel The Laxmi Niwas Palace, Gajner Palace Hotel, Hotel Harasar Haveli, Karni Bhawan Palace, Hotel Shri Ram Heritage, Heritage Resort Bikaner, Lallgarh Palace, Hotel Desert Winds, Hotel Jaswant Bhawan, Hotel Bhairon Vilas, Hotel Heeralal, Hotel Maharaj Ganga Mahal, Balaji Resort, Marudyan Resort, Kochar's Hotel Marudhar Heritage etc. Industries Woolen Industry, Ceramic Industry, Bhujiya and Namkeen Industry etc. University/College Maharaja Ganga Singh University, Rajasthan University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Jaisalmer Road, Bikaner, Swami Keshwanand Rajasthan Agricultural University, ikaner Technical University, Government Polytechnic College, College of Engineering & Technology, Government Engineering College, Sardar Patel Medical College, Marudhar Engineering College, Manda Institute of Technology, Government Maharani Sudsharan College for Women etc. Notable people Karni Singh, Rameshwar Lal Dudi, Bulaki Das Kalla, Reshma, Bharat Vyas - Bollywood Lyricist, Ghulam Mohammad - Music composer, Bollywood, Harish Bhadani- A famous Hindi and Rajasthani Poet, Narpat Singh Rajvi - former Minister and MLA, Sudhir Tailang - Famous Cartoonist, started with Illustrated weekly then Nav Bharat Times, Hindustan Times, Rajyashree Kumari-is a former shooter from India. She was conferred the Arjuna Award in shooting in 1968. Blogs about Bikaner Junagarh Fort, Bikaner : I have not come across such a huge and complex structure of a fort so far during my cycling journey. I have been to many forts in South India and other parts but the Junagrah Fort is what actually impressed me with its structure, the way it was built, and how it has been well maintained with all the royal heritage excellently preserved. The Junagarh Fort is one of the few major forts in Rajasthan… read more... Elegantly Lavish: Lalgarh Palace in Bikaner : Built by Maharaja Ganga Singh (Maharaja of Bikaner), in the memory of his father Maharaja Lall Singh between 1902 and 1926, the Lalgarh Palace is an elegant architectural marvel. Designed with red sandstone, the palace is bejeweled with lattice and filigree work that defines excellence in craftsmanship. It is an amalgam of various architectural styles – Mughal, Rajputana and colonial British and was designed by Samuel Swinton Jacob, a British architect. Key attractions: Dramatic Rajputana… read more... Awe-inspiring Architecture – Junagarh Fort : Every section of the Junagarh Fort in Bikaner is embellished to impress. Huge sandstone walls, detailed carvings and royal history associated with the fort welcomes its visitors. The best part is that the fort looks so alive as it is well maintained. This exclusive piece of architecture was built by Raja Rai Singh and is counted among the most revered forts in Rajasthan. The Junagarh Fort is know by other popular names – Chintamani and… read more... What Is So Special About Devi Kund? : Situated 8 kilometers from Bikaner, Devi Kund is a classic example of the Rajputana style of architecture. Devi Kund is a royal crematorium with elegant cenotaphs (known as chhattris) and each of these has something unique about it. Built in the memory of the deceased members of the Bikaji Dynasty, these cenotaphs narrate stories of bravery and chivalry. Chhattris of early rulers are made out of red sandstone, while those of later ones are made… read more... Bandeshwar Temple in Bikaner : Located in the royal state of Rajasthan, Bikaner is popular for its rich culture and exquisite architectural marvels, including palaces and temples. The BandeshwarTemple is counted among one of the most popular attractions of Bikaner and is famous for its beautiful interiors, wall paintings and art. Made of red sand stone and painted in white, the temple has towering roofs intricately done with murals, mirror-work and paintings. Carved wooden columns and dancing figures, colorful walls… read more... Last Updated on : June 16, 2014 Cities in Rajasthan Ajmer Alwar Amer Banaswara Barmer Bharatpur Bhilwara Bhiwadi Bikaner Bhadra Bundi Chittaurgarh Kishangarh Didwana Nohar Pratapgarh Churu Dungarpur Jaipurcity Jaisalmer Jhalawar Jodhpur Kota Kumbhalgarh Mount Abu Ganganagar Hanumangarh Gangapur Jalore Sojat Nathdwara Niwai Nagaur Neemrana Pali Pushkar Ranakpur Sawai Madhopur Shekhawati Sikar Udaipur Tonk Baran Dausa Laxmangarh Merta Ladnun Rawatbhata             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule