TNAU Agritech Portal :: Good Agicultural Practices (GAP)   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Farmers' Innovation | Publications | FAQs | Contact Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) :: Organizational and Administrative Setup Organizational and Administrative Setup Authority of the KVK’s is vested in the ICAR having it’s headquarter at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi.  The Council is a society registered under the Societies Registration Act  1860 of India. The Director General, ICAR and Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education, GOI, is the principal executive of the Council. He is supported by 8 Deputy Director Generals including a Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) who is responsible for implementation of the agricultural extension programmes in the counseling and giving advice to him on all policy issues related to extension programmes. The DDG (Agricultural Extension) is the head of Agricultural Extension Division of the council which is one of the 8 divisions.  The division is responsible for co-ordination of front line extension education programmes of the ICAR at national level.  The DDG (Agricultural Extension) is assisted by 3 Assistant Director Generals ( Agricultural Extension) . There are 8  zonal coordinating units  located in eight zones of the country.  Each ZCU is headed by a Zonal coordinator.  Coordination and monitoring functions at the zonal level is being performed by the ZC unit. The grantee/host institution has to provide overall supervision of the programme in the KVK.  The programme co-ordination of the KVK is the principal executive officer of the respective Kendra. The authority and monitoring mechanism of the KVK, are depicted in the following flow diagram Scientific Advisory Committee Each KVK has a SAC  (earlier local management committee) which  consists of the following member. 1. Head of Host Institution (VC of the  SAU or Chairman of the institutions / NGO Chairperson 2. Director of Extension of concerned SAU Member 3. ZC of the concerned Zone Member 4. Representatives of ICAR institutes / ICAR Member 5. Associate Director Research& extension of the Zonal Research station in which KVk is located Member 6. District officers of the line departments such as Agrl, Hort, AH, Soil conservation, Social welfare small scale Industries. Member 7. Representatives of the Local Bank of the district Member 8. Farm radio officer of the AIR in which KVK is located Member 9. Representatives Doordarshan Centre in which KVK is located Member 10. Two representatives of the farmers one small & one big nominated by the Head of the Institution Member 11. Two representatives of Farm women nominated by the Head of institution Member 12. Programme coordinator Member This committee should meet twice in a year.  In absence of Head of Institution in the meeting, the members present in the meeting shall select a chairperson to conduct the meeting.  Minimum 50% participator of the members shall form quorum.  The committee shall provide guidance to the KVK, prepare 5 year plan of the Kendra, review progress, approve annual accounts and approve recruitments. India has 553 KVKs under the perview of  ICAR. ( http://www.icar.org.in/agextn.htm )   Home | About Us | Success Stories | Farmers Association | Publications | FAQs | Site Map | Disclaimer | Contact Us © 2013 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.