Tamil Nadu Facts, Facts about Tamil Nadu Home » Tamil Nadu » Quick Facts about Tamil Nadu   Tamil Nadu तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamil Nadu Map Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Travel to Tamilnadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Ooty Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Tiruchirappalli Places to visit in Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Temples in Kanyakumari Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamil Nadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Tamil Nadu Pincode Tamil Nadu Std Code Art and Crafts Tamil Nadu Economy Tamil Nadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport Tamil Nadu People Tamil Nadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities In Tamil Nadu       Tamil Nadu Facts Tamil Nadu , South India's jewel in the crown is resplendent in its panoramic rhapsodies, cultural legacy and shrouded in history that dates as far back as 500 BC. Some majestic and exquisite temples dominate the state's skyline and are Tamil Nadu's claim to fame. A summary elucidating some of the quick facts about Tamil Nadu is hereby elucidated. Tamil Nadu, India's cultural capital was formerly known, as Madras State is located in southeast India. Kanyakumari, the southern most tip of the country and the voluminous confluence of the Bay of Bengal, Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea is a part of the state. With its 1000 km long coastline dotted with dense coconut groves, whose heads gracefully sway to and fro in the breeze, whispering delicious secrets to one another and enclose the solitary ocean glittering like a jewel in a brass setting, the state has some of the country's most exquisite natural backwaters. Below is a table representing important facts about Tamil Nadu     Date of Formation August 15,1947 Size 1,30,058 sq km Population 62,405,679 Capital Chennai Rivers Kaveri, Palar, Pniyar, Bhavani Forests & National Park Mudumalai NP, Mukurthi NP, Annamalai NP Languages Tamil Neighbours State Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh State Animal Nilgiri Tahr State Bird Emerald Dove State Tree Palmera Palm State Flower Glory Lily or Kandhal Location Tamil Nadu encompasses the latitudinal parallel of 13°05'North and longitudinal meridian of 80°16'East and covers an area of approximately 130,058 sq. km. The state is enclosed between Pondicherry, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh How to Reach Tamil Nadu, is one of the country's urban states with well-developed transport and communication facilities that connect the state with all major industrial hubs and also the rest of the country. The state has an opulent road network with 24 national highways that form the state's arterial network as well as several well-maintained local roads. The state also houses railways junctions at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirapalli. Chennai has its own Suburban Railway network and is on the verge of coming up with its own metro station. Tamil Nadu also boasts of the Chennai International Airport as well as domestic airports at Coimbatore, Trichy, Tuticorin and Madurai. The state also has provisions for sea travel that is facilitated by three bustling ports at Chennai, Ennore and Tuticorin, as well as one intermediate port at Nagapattinam and seven minor ports. Area Formerly known as Madras State, Tamil Nadu spans across the geometric coordinates of 13°05' North to 80°16' East and encompasses an area of 130,058 sq. km. The beautiful state has an elongated coastline of nearly 1000 km dotted with lush foliage comprising of coconut and casuarinas groves behind which the elusive ocean waters gleam under the playful saffron sunbeams like a mirage of quicksilver. Pupulation In terms of density of population, the state of Tamil Nadu ranks seventh in the country. As of the year 2011, the density of population of the state is 555 persons/sq km, which has shown a significant rise from 429/sq km in 1991. The density of population is considerably greater than the countrywide mean of 382 persons/sq km. Languages Tamil is one of the eighteen national languages that have earned a place in the eighth schedule of the Indian constitution. Alphabets of Tamil language represents sound rather than ideas. This feature can be compared to the Mandarin language of China. Apart from Tamil Nadu, the beautiful language is also spoken in the other states and also by a number of people in Singapore, Srilanka, Mauritius and Malaysia. The Tamil language boasts of excellent literary works of past and present. The Tamil literature carries an envious tradition of more than two thousand years. Two of the finest literary works on Tamil are the poetries - Manathi Uruthi Vendum and Yaathum Oore Yaavarum Kelir. STD Codes The Tamil Nadu Telecom Circle provides a good service throughout the state and offers facilities like basic telephones, ISDN, Internet, leased line and I-net. Apart from these, they also provide the cellular service. The use of telephones in Tamil Nadu is increasing day by day and the growing number of telephone connections prove the point. Even the villages are no alien to this fact and most of the villages in the state are under the telecommunication system. Telephone Codes of some of the main cities and towns of the state are given below: Cities STD Codes Chennai 044 Coimbatore 0422 Cuddalore 04142 Dharmapuri 04342 Dindigul 0451 Erode 0424 Kancheepuram 04112 Nagercoil 04652 Karur 04324 Krishnagiri 04343 Madurai 0452 Nagappattinam 04365 Namakkal 04286 Udhagamandalam Not Available Perambalur 04328 Pudukkottai 04322 Ramanathapuram 04567 Salem 0427 Sivagangai 04575 Thanjavur 04362 Theni 04546 Thiruvallur Not Available Thoothukudi Not Available Tiruchirapalli Not Available Tirunelveli 0462 Tiruvannamalai 04175 Vellore 0416 Villupuram 04146 Virudhunagar 04562 Find more STD codes >> Last Updated on 1/17/2011             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule