Jharkhand Education Home » Jharkhand » Education   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Education Jharkhand Education is centered around the examinations conducted under the State Boards, Universities and Colleges. Jharkhand Madarsa Examination Board, Jharkhand Intermediate Exams Board, Jharkhand Secondary Examination Board, the Universities and Colleges comprise the education in Jharkhand. In Jharkhand, education starts at the age of 5, when the children are admitted to schools. The schools, which form the basis of education at Jharkhand, are affiliated to either the State Board or CBSE or ICSE. It is noteworthy that the government schools in Jharkhand are vernacular medium schools, where Hindi is the medium of instruction. Besides, the government schools, Education department of Jharkhand also consists of English medium schools. In order to improve the prospects of education at Jharkhand, the Government has launched the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, thereby consolidating primary education to all up to the age of 14. The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is an extensive scheme adopted by the Government and is carried out to universalize primary education in every nook and corner of the state. Besides, the Government of Jharkhand is also working towards strengthening the basic format of education of Jharkhand. Some of the administrative officers who are working towards this cause are: Shri S K Prasad - Director (Primary Education). Shri Manikant Azad - Director (Secondary Education). Shri Harendra Prasad Singh - Additional Director (Secondary Education). Shri Himbachan Sahoo - Director (Higher Secondary). Moreover, an estimate of the various schools, colleges and universities that form an integral part of the education in Jharkhand are: Schools: DAV Schools DPS Schools KVS Schools Jharkhand Convent Schools, etc. Colleges: Birla Institute of Technology Allice Institute of Technology Regional Institute of Technology Indian School of Mines Cambridge Institute of Technology, etc. Universities: Ranchi University Vinoba Bhave University Birsa Agricultural University Sido-Kanhu University Indian School of Mines Birla Institute of Technology National Institute of Technology, etc. Thus, it can be said that education in Jharkhand is trying to pace up with the Education departments of the other states of India. Till recently, the department of education was under developed in Jharkhand; but, due to the endeavor of the Government of Jharkhand, Department of Education is soaring into newer heights. Colleges Jharkhand is a progressive state of India; thus it gives more emphasis on education and career building. With the growing need of education, many colleges and institutions have emerged in Jharkhand opening doors to numerous general and professional courses. The Jharkhand Colleges are some of the best educational institutions of India and they believe in quality education and career building options for the students. There are separate colleges for science, arts and commerce students. Even many professional institutes and colleges have also grown up catering to the need of the aspiring students. All the colleges are having excellent teaching faculties and are well equipped with necessary study materials. There are various colleges at Jharkhand catering to the different fields which are: Medical Colleges Pharmacy Colleges Nursing Colleges Engineering Colleges Veterinary Colleges Law Colleges Ayurvedic Colleges Hotel Management Institutes Research Institutes Mass Communication Colleges Management Institutes Homeopathy Colleges Biotechnology Colleges Architecture Colleges Polytechnics Universities Jharkhand has a number of universities that offer different courses on science, arts, commerce and in other professional courses in graduate, post-graduate and research level. A huge amount of popularity is enjoyed by the universities in Jharkhand both from the end of the students and the academicians. The university courses are highly practical and revised time to time that too with the need of the study. The students can choose from a wide range of subjects offered by the renowned universities at Jharkhand. The various subjects include: Chemistry Anthropology Chemical Engineering Commerce Computer Science English Language and literature Economics Botany Geography MBA Sociology Psychology Zoology, etc. Besides, the also offer a number of diploma and vocational courses. A student can choose his own stream according to his choice. The universities also have departments catering to higher studies and researches in various fields. Below is a list of the universities of Jharkhand: Indian School of Mines, Jharkhand Phone :  2210024-27 Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh, Bihar Phone :  06546 264628 National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur, Jharkhand Birsa Agricultural University, Jharkhand Phone :  0651 2450832 Sido-Kanhu Murmu University, Jharkhand Phone :  6434 - 22495 Birla Institute of Technology Mesra, Jharkhand Phone :  0651 2275896/ 2275444/ 2275352/ 2276267 Ranchi University, Jharkhand Phone :  0651 2301077, 2301927, 2540320 Last Updated on : 25 th March 2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule