Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition Navigation Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition Making agricultural and nutritional data available, accessible, and usable Home Main nav Home What is GODAN? Overview Statement of purpose GODAN governance A history of GODAN Resources and financing News Partners Current partners Partner locations Become a GODAN partner Events Upcoming events Past events 2015 GODAN meeting Publications Latest publications Success stories Contact Return to Content Launch of GODAN Discussion paper Today the Open Data Institute (ODI) is launching the GODAN Discussion paper at the 3rd International Open Data Conference (IODC) in Ottawa. GODAN Discussion paper Download the Discussion paper at the ODI website or read it below. “How can we improve agriculture, food and nutrition with open data? The global food system is struggling under the combined pressures of a growing population, climate uncertainty and volatile market forces. Open data is a powerful tool being used to solve problems around the world in agriculture and nutrition: from drought, pests and diseases, to food security and food safety. In this discussion paper, we highlight examples of how open data in different contexts can enable more effective decision making, create innovation and promote transparency that transforms the way organisations work for the better. By helping others to do the same it will alleviate today’s pressures on a strained food ecosystem and build necessary mechanisms to support a food-secure future . This paper has been produced in collaboration with the Global Open Data in Agriculture and Nutrition initiative – a network which focuses on building high-level policy, and public and private institutional support for open data in agriculture and nutrition.” To find out more about joining the fast-growing GODAN network contact enquiries@godan.info or fill in the online registration at here . Download the Discussion paper at the ODI webiste here. #GODAN on Twitter Tweets about "#GODAN" Latest news Launch of GODAN Discussion paper New research shows the impact of open data in agriculture and nutrition Moving GODAN Partners Together Towards Action GODAN Baseline Questionnaire underway AidData joins GODAN partnership Subscribe to our newsletter Please complete the fields below: Your email address*: Fullname* Company Categories Categories Select Category Engagement News think pieces Uncategorized © 2015 Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress . Designed by What does GODAN do?