Issuance of Biometric Identity Cards to Coastal Fisherman Skip to main contents | Accessibility Options | Screen Reader Access मुख्य सामग्री पर जाएं | अभिगम्यता के विकल्प Home About Us Functions Attached/ Subordinate Offices Organization Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Schemes Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Guidelines Dairy Development Fishery Fodder Large Ruminants(Bovine) Livestock Extension Livestock Insurance Livestock Health Piggery Development Poultry Small Ruminants Threatened Breeds Trade Bovine Breeding Trade Conferences Statistics Animal Husbandry Statistics Livestock Census Fisheries Poultry Reports Forms Grievances Public Grievances Contact Us Sunabeda Suratgarh Andeshnagar Breeds Chiplima breeds Dhamrod breeds Hessarghatta breeds Sunabeda breeds CHRS-centre names Suratgarh Breeds Tenders English हिन्दी में Welcome to Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries पशुपालन, डेयरी और मत्स्य पालन विभाग में आपका स्वागत है Search : खोजें : Division Animal Husbandary Dairy Development Fisheries Admin I Livestock Health Cash Section Home / Division / Fisheries / Issuance of Biometric Identity Cards to Coastal Fisherman Issuance of Biometric Identity Cards to Coastal Fisherman Name of the Scheme Issuance of Biometric Identity Cards to Coastal Fishermen Type Central Sector Scheme Year of commencement 2009-10. Objectives Basic objectives of the scheme are: (i). To empower every Indian costal fisherman through issuance of application oriented Biometric ID card. (ii). To establish a National Marine Fishers Database (NMFD) which could be accessed to by all the authorized agencies both in the Central and State/UTs. (iii). To strengthen Coastal security and the threat from sea route would be reduced through this mechanism. (iv). Issue of the National Biometric ID cards would eliminate duplication of different cards    issued presently to fishermen by different agencies/States. Salient features The Central sector Scheme on Issuance of Biometric Identity cards to coastal fishermen at a total cost of ` 72.0 crore has been launched by this Ministry on 11 th December, 2009. A consortium of three Central Public Sector Undertakings (CPSUs) led by Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) is entrusted the work of digitization of data, card production and issuance. Structure of the scheme The scheme is being operated with the following components: (i). Assistance to coastal States/UTs for data collection and Authentication. (ii). Personalization and production of Biometric Identity cards. (iii). Key Management System. (iv). Establishment of Central Server. (v). Continuation of support to the project.   Funding pattern The Central assistance is 100% grant-in-aid to Maritime State Government /UT Administrations and other implementing agencies. Eligibility Maritime States and UT Admn. Target Group/Beneficiaries   Fisher folk of all maritime States and UTs. Area of operation All the coastal States and UTs Implementing agency State Governments /UT Administrations, Consortium of three Central Public Sector Undertakings viz: Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), Electronics Corporation of India Ltd (ECIL) and Indian Telephone Industries Ltd (ITI) . Procedure for applying Implementing agencies are required to submit the proposal to DAHDF. BE outlay and spending year-wise 2005-06 to 2010-11 (` in crores) Year 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 BE         8.00   Actual Expn               Help | Terms of Use | Site Map | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer | Hyperlinking Policy | Privacy Policy | Archives | Contact Us This website belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ©  2014 All rights reserved. Designed,Developed & Hosted by NIC