Travel to Vaishno Devi: Destinations, Hotels, Food, Transport and Tour Guide Home » Maps » Jammu & Kashmir » Travel to Vaishno Devi   Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Tehsil Map Rivers Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Forest Map India Pakistan Border Dispute जम्मू और कश्मीर का नक्शा Cities Srinagar Jammu Leh Pahalgam Gulmarg Udhampur                    more.. Travel to Jammu and Kashmir Places to visit in Jammu Amarnath Yatra Map Vaishno Devi Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Gulmarg Hotels Jammu Hotels Katra Hotels Leh Ladakh Hotels Pahalgam Hotels Patnitop Hotels Srinagar Hotels Gulmarg Hotels Assembly Polls J&K Lok Sabha Elections Utilities Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Distance Chart Pin code STD code Universities In Jammu And Kashmir Dental Colleges Medical Colleges       Vaishno Devi Location Map of Vaishno Devi Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing the location of Vaishno Devi in Jammu and Kashmir. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Vaishno Devi Travel It is said that, if you want to achieve the four objectives of human life laid down by the Indian spiritual tradition viz. Dharm (Righteousness), Arth (Material Pursuits), Kaam (Contentment) and Moksh (Enlightenment), you must visit Vaishno Devi at least once in your lifetime. And even if you do not believe in religion, you must pay a visit to this place simply because of its natural beauty. The panoramic surroundings and the enchanting journey will make your trip a memorable one. Vaishno Devi Travel Guide is here to help you will all essential information about this place. About Vaishno Devi Vaishno Devi Mandir is a holy pilgrimage destination for the Hindus, located in the folds of three-peaked mountain Trikuta, 12 km away from Katra in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, India. Vaishno Devi Tourism It's the temple dedicated to Shakti, which attract thousands of tourists, especially but not limited to the Hindu pilgrims from every corner of the country. Mata Vaishno Devi, also popularly known as Mata Vaishnavi and Mata Rani in Hinduism, is believed to have spent some time in this cave at an altitude of 5,200 ft while observing various spiritual disciplines. Currently Vaishno Devi temple is India's second most visited religious site with yearly visitors of around 60,000. The shrine of Vaishno Devi is maintained by the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. Best Time to Visit Vaishno Devi can be visited all through the year. However, May through July and the festivals of Chaitra and Sharad-Ashwin attract most number of visitors. December and January is the time for snowfall. Vaishno Devi History It is very difficult, like any other old shrines, to trace back the history of Vaishno Devi; however geological studies indicate that the holy shrine of Vaishno Devi is almost a million years old. Though the Vedic literature doesn't refer to any goddess, however one can find the mention of Trikuta hills in Rigveda - the oldest of the four Vedas. There are different versions of the origin of Vaishno Devi available, but according to the most popular version, the shrine of Vaishno Devi was discovered about 700 years back by Pandit Shridhar. According to the popular belief, Mata once helped in organizing a Bhandaara at Shridhar's place. But, she had to leave the place to escape Bhairon Nath. As Mata left the place, Shridhar started giving up food in grief and started praying for Mata Vaishno Devi. Mata came in his dreams and asked him to search for her at the cave in the Trikuta Mountain. This led to the discovery of the holy cave. Shridhar found three head atop a rock, which are currently known as the Holy Pindies. Vaishno Devi Mandir - Entry Fee, Timing, Address, Official Website Address Vaishno Devi Temple, Katra, Jammu & Kashmir - 182301 Entry Fee : No entry fee Timings : Visiting Hours - 5:00 AM - 12:00 PM - 4:00 PM - 9:00 PM Phone No (Official) +91-1991-232367 / +91-1991-232238 / +91-1991-234053 Official Website www.maavaishnodevi.org Photography allowed or not Not Allowed Nearest railway station Katra railway station Last Updated on : May 15, 2015 Jammu and Kashmir Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Elevation Map District Map Railway Map Road Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Forest Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Jammu and Kashmir Travel Map Handicrafts Map Gulmarg Location Map Leh Ladakh Map Leh Location Map Vaishno Devi Location Map Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Jammu to Amritsar Route Map Jammu to Chandigarh Route Map Jammu to Delhi Route Map Jammu to Srinagar Route Map Amarnath Yatra Map Places to Visit in Jammu Leh Tourist Map Trekking Route Map Pocket Maps Chandigarh to Jammu Delhi to Jammu Jammu to Leh Jammu to Pahalgam Jammu to Shimla Chandigarh to Srinagar Delhi to Srinagar Leh to Srinagar Chandigarh to Vaishnodevi About Jammu and Kashmir Hotels in Jammu and Kashmir Rivers and Lakes Jammu Kashmir Elections Election Results Chief Minister Dental Colleges Medical Colleges             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule