Microsoft Word - Simplification F.No. 2-3/2009 Fert. Law Government of India Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture New Delhi, Krishi Bhavan Dated the 15th December,2009 TO 1.The Secretary (Agriculture) State Government of 2. All Fertilizers Manufacturers Subject:- Simplification of Procedure for Inclusion of fertilizers in FCO. Sir, I am directed to state that inclusion of any product as fertilizer in Schedule I, or as provisional fertilizer under Clause 20 A, or as customized fertilizer under Clause 20B, of the Fertiliser (Control) Order (FCO),1985 inter alia requires data on agronomic trials. 2. The issue of simplification of the procedure for inclusion of fertilizers in Schedule I and under Clause 20 A has been under the consideration of the Government for some time. It has now been decided to adopt the following procedure to reduce the time taken in inclusion of fertilizers in FCO: (i) At present multi locational trial data are required to be generated for two cropping seasons on different crops in different agro-climatic regions to evaluate a particular product in terms of its agronomic efficiency, cost benefit ratio and other criteria. It has been decided that in case the source of nutrient in a particular product proposed to be used as fertilizer and to be included in FCO is different from the one already included in FCO, it would be required to be tested under field conditions for one cropping season. In case the results are inconclusive in one cropping season, the trials may be extended for another cropping season. (ii) The requirement of trials would be dispensed with if the product is one of the variants of a product already included in the schedule I. The opinion on such products would be obtained from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). (iii) If the product is already in FCO and is proposed to be fortified with a micronutrient using similar source of micronutrient and concentration already existing in FCO, no trial would be required. This dispensation would also be extended to fortified fertilizers containing upto two micronutrients and having concentration in the following range: Micronutrients Concentration (%) Zinc 0.4-1.0 Boron 0.1-0.3 Molybdenum 0.01-0.05 Copper 0.2-0.5 (Note: Usually, soil application of iron and manganese is not desirable due to low nutrient use efficiency. Hence fortification is not advocated as high doses are required. For foliar application, sulphate salts of iron and manganese @ 0.5 – 1.0% are recommended) (J.C. Bain) Deputy Secretary (INM) Copy to: 1. Joint Secretary (A&M), Department of Fertilisers, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi. 2. Executive Director, Fertiliser Coordination Committee, 8th Floor, Sewa Nagar, Department of Fertilisers, R.K. Puram, Delhi 3. Assistant Director General (Soil) Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Pusa, New Delhi. 4. Fertiliser Association of India, 10 Shaheed Jeet Singh Marg, New Delhi with the request to bring this letter to the notice of all manufacturers of fertilizers. (J.C. Bain) Deputy Secretary (INM)