Welcome to DGCI&S JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995433 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Privacy Policy Privacy Policy As a general rule, this website does not collect Personal Information about you when you visit the site. You can generally visit the site without revealing Personal Information, unless you choose to provide such information. Site Visit data: This website records your visit and logs the following information for statistical purposes your server's address; the name of the top-level domain from which you access the Internet (for example, .gov, .com, .in, etc.); the type of browser you use; the date and time you access the site; the pages you have accessed and the documents downloaded and the previous Internet address from which you linked directly to the site. We will not identify users or their browsing activities, except when a law enforcement agency may exercise a warrant to inspect the service provider's logs. Cookies: A cookie is a piece of software code that an internet web site sends to your browser when you access information at that site. This site does not use cookies. Email management: Your email address will only be recorded if you choose to send a message. It will only be used for the purpose for which you have provided it and will not be added to a mailing list. Your email address will not be used for any other purpose, and will not be disclosed, without your consent. Collection of Personal Information: If you are asked for any other Personal Information you will be informed how it will be used if you choose to give it. If at any time you believe the principles referred to in this privacy statement have not been followed, or have any other comments on these principles, please notify the Web Information Manager through the contact us page. Note: The use of the term "Personal Information" in this privacy statement refers to any information from which your identity is apparent or can be reasonably ascertained. Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107