Lip Shaped Cushions Manufacturer by Healthy (hk) Imp&exp Trading Limited List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Healthy (hk) Imp&exp Trading Limited Member Since : 2013 | Country : China Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Kids Toys, Cloth Art Goods, Children Toys, Advertising Gift Company Information Healthy's head office in hongkong and offices located in the maritime silk road starting point-quanzhou, in mainland china.we are a young and dynamic international trading company. The role of us act as exporters and purchasing that professional in this field. Could be meet the requirements of different levels consumers. In this field, we have a broad market and first-class goods. healthy provides a professional environment with experienced and knowledgeable staff geared to maximizing the effectiveness of our clients visit. Our network has extended to southeast asia, europe, america, canada, south africa. Healthy has built a high service reputation focused on customer needs and we continue to evolve our business to accommodate the fast changing sourcing environment . it is our constant aim to add value for our clients and we provide additional services such as product development across a wide range of merchandise. We also offer the facility of our design studio for packaging design and development. We are adhering to the "customer first, forge ahead" business philosophy and propose "health,eco-friendly" products philosophy. With superior quality as guarantee, to provide high quality goods for consumers. Customer satisfaction is our eternal pursuit。business talks are welcome and grow together! healthy export product include advertising gift, children toys and house supplies. Products's material include have are textile products, rattan-weaved products, bamboo products, wooden products, stone products and ceramics products etc, in our company. At present, the strong point of us are exporting fabrics spandex and foam particle filler's textile products (all kinds of fashion cartoon, cute animal, fun and creative style etc). There are several series and hundres of varieties for you choose. Main series of baby toys, educational toys, valentine's day, christmas products, pendant, anime, household goods, automotive supplies, the brand vip gifts, promotional gifts, office gifts, sports, festival gift, doll, marine animals, etc. As well as could be make according to customer's design and demands. Fashionable style, perfect technology, high-quality and pretty competitive price can help you to win profitable market. Company Facts Business Type : Manufacturer / Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers Year of Estd. : 2009 Company Turnover : USD 50 to 100 Million Approx. No. of Employee : 20 - 50 Ownership : Corporation/Limited Liability Company Business Markets : Southeast Asia, Europe, America, Canada, South Africa Website : http://www.healthyimpexptradinglimited.biz Featured Products/Services Lip Shaped Cushions Kids Soft Toys Mobile Phone Holders Animal Shaped Pillows Valentines U Shape Neck Pillow U- Shaped Back Cushion Hold Pillow Foam Particles Small Feet Pillow Eps Foam Particles Football Toy Foam Mobile Phone Holder Search Contact Details Ms. Lily Zhuang Telephone : +86-28671777 Fax No : +86-59528671777 Mobile Phone : +86-15392237977,+86-8615392237977 » More detail Hot Products » Animal Shaped Pillows » Kids Soft Toys » Lip Shaped Cushions » Mobile Phone Holders Other Products » Anatase Titanium Dioxide » Eps Foam Particles Football Toy » Foam Cushion Pillow » Foam Mobile Phone Holder » Foam Particles Small Feet Pillow » U- Shaped Back Cushion Hold Pillow » Valentines U Shape Neck Pillow Yes No WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com