Mizoram Map Home » Maps » Mizoram Map   Mizoram मिजोरम का नक्शा Mizoram Map Aizawl City Map Agriculture Map Districts of Mizoram Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Mizoram Location Travel to Mizoram Places to Visit in Mizoram Wildlife Sanctuaries Museums in Mizoram Caves in Mizoram Physical Map Forest Map Information of Mizoram Culture of Mizoram Lat Long Geography and History About Mizoram Government Language Assembly Poll Sex Ratio Pin Code       Mizoram Map Map of Mizoram Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map of Mizoram with major roads, railways, rivers, national highways, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Location map Outline Map District Map River Maps Road Map         Railway Map Parliamentary Map Lat Long Map Forest Map Wildlife Map Mizoram is one of the seven northeastern states of India and is enclosed by Myanmar, Bangladesh, Manipur , Assam , and Tripura . In the local language, Mizoram means "Land of the Highlanders". The Mizo Hills, which dominate the state's topography, rise to more than 6560 ft near the Myanmar border. Aizawl, the state capital, is 4000 ft above sea level. About three-fourths of the population earns their livelihood from agriculture. Paddy, maize, mustard, sugarcane, sesame, fiber less ginger and potatoes are the other prominent crops grown in this area. Small-scale irrigation projects are being developed to increase the crop yield. There are no major industries in the state. Small-scale industries include sericulture, handloom and handicrafts industries, sawmills and furniture workshops, oil refining, grain milling, and ginger processing. The service sector comprises of Tourism, Real Estate and Insurance. Mizoram State Information Capital Aizawl Date of formation 20. Feb. 1987 Governor Krishan Kant Paul Chief Minister Pu Lalthanhawla Tourist attraction s Phawngpui, Sibuta Lung, Philpui Grave, Pangzawl Festivals Chapchar Kut, Mim Kut, Pawl Kut Major dance and music forms Khal Lam, Chai, Chhilam, Sawlkin Arts and crafts Puan; cane and bamboo baskets, pipes, toys that utilise the natural elasticity of bamboo Languages Lushai, Mizo, Bengali, Lakher Size 21,081 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 1,097,206 Rivers Tlwang, Tlau, Chhimtuipui, Tuichang, Tuirial, Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Lengteng WS, Murlen NP, Phawngpui NP, Thorangtlang WS State animal Serow State bird Hume's bartailed pheasant State flower Dancing Girl orchid State tree Nag Kesar Major crops Paddy, wheat, bamboo, oil palm Factoids Cheraw or the bamboo dance is a popular form of dancing. Pukzing cave, near Aizawl stands at 25 m. Legends say that Mualzavata, a very strong man, carved it out with a hair pin. No. of District 8 Last Updated on : October 3, 2014             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule