Anand City Map Home » Maps » Gujarat » Anand City Map   Gujarat Cities Ahmedabad Anand Dwarka Gandhinagar Jamnagar Rajkot Somnath Surat Vadodara                        more.. गुजरात का नक्शा About Gujarat History Geography Weather Gujarat Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Elevation Map Region Map District Map Road Map Railway Map River Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Agriculture Map Mineral Map Port Map Ahmedabad Metro Map Economy Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Gujarat Places to visit in Gujarat Temples in Gujarat Gujarat Beaches Wildlife Sanctuaries Hotels in Gujarat Ahmedabad Hotels Saputara Hotels Surat Hotels Vadodara Hotels Rajkot Hotels Jamnagar Hotels              more... How to reach Airports Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Schools Universities in Gujarat India Map in Gujarati World Map in Gujarati Gujarat Landkarte Ubersichtskarte von Gujarat       Anand City Map City Map of Anand Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Anand City Map showing roads, railways, hospitals and other places of interest. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. The city of Anand is located in Gujarat , India. It serves as the government headquarters of Anand district in the state. Popularly known as the milk capital of India, Anand forms a portion of the area called as Charotar which is made up of Kheda and Anand districts. Why is Anand City Famous? The city of Anand is famous for being the Milk Capital of India. The milk revolution and establishment of Amul Dairy have brought the city to the limelight. Anand is home to Anand Agricultural University and the National Dairy Development Board of India. The city is also renowned for Karamsad and Vallabh Vidhyanagar, which is an academic community in the city. The city has witnessed speedy economic development in areas like Karamsad Road and Anand Vallabh Vidya Nagar. Anand is on the right course to getting the status of a Municipal Corporation with the annexation of different neighboring rural areas such as Lambhvel, Chikhodra, Bakrol, V. V Nagar, Mogri and others. Geographical features of Anand The geographical coordinates of the city of Anand are 22.57° North and 72.93° east.? The mean altitude of the city is 127 feet or 39 meters. The city encompasses a land area of 22.7 sq km or 8.8 sq miles. The metropolitan region of the city covers 172 sq km which incorporates 25 villages bordering the city. Population of Anand According to statistics provided in 2010, the population of Anand is 300,462. Demographic features of Anand About 52% of the population of the city is male and 48% female. The mean literacy rate of the city is 78% and this surpasses the countrywide mean of 59.5%. Males represent 55% of the literate people and females 45%. About 11% of the people living in the city are below the age of six years. Famous Educational Institutes in Anand Given below are the names of the well-known educational institutes in Anand: Schools Takshashila Vidyalaya, Boriavi Angel School Anand High School Kasturba Kanya Vidyalaya D N High School (Also known as Dadabhai Navaroji High School) Kendriya Vidyalaya Akshar Purshottam Chaatralaya Anandalaya Education Society- The Best CBSE School in the area Vrajbhoomi International School - Mogar (VISMA) Pintos' High School, Bakrol K.J.Thakkar and J.P. Thakkar Eng medium school St. Xavier's High School BJ Vidya Mandal, also known as BJVM D. Z. Patel Higher Secondary School D. N. High School Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir B. Patel School Pioneer High School Bavis Gam Vidhvyalaya Academic Institutes Department of Mathematics Extension Education Institute Anand Agricultural University D. Patel Institute of Technology - New V. V. Nagar SMC College of Dairy Science Veterinary College B A College of Agriculture Anand Homeopathic College Institute of Rural Management Birla Vishwakarma Mahavidyalaya College of Engineering, V. V. Nagar Sardar Patel University - V. V Nagar M.U. Patel Technical High School - V.V. Nagar M.B. Patel Science College Institute of Science & Technology for Advanced Studies & Research VP Science College - V.V. Nagar Sanskruti Education And Charitable Trust NV Patel Science College: It is an ISO 9001:2000 Certified Institution GH Patel MBA Institute Anand Commerce College AD Institute of Technology GH Patel MCA Institute Rajratna P T Patel Science College G H Patel College of Engineering & Technology Nirmal Niketan Anand Homeopathy College Home Science College SEMCOM Karamsad Medical College Information Technology Center, Mogri Nalini Arvind Arts College Anand Commerce College ICFAI University Tripura Anand Mercantile College of Science and Technology About AMUL Anand Milk Union Limited or Amul was established in 1946. It is the result of a famous dairy co-operative movement in the country. Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. or GCMMF uses it as a brand name and supervises it as the topmost cooperative institution in the country. The owners of Amul are around 2.6 million milk manufacturers in the state. The products manufactured by Amul include chocolates, baby food, butter, cheese, and milk-based beverages. Other than India, Amul is also serving international locations like UAE, Mauritius, Bangladesh, USA, China, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, and some nations in South Africa. Location and Transportation of Anand Lying on the itinerary of Western Railway, the city is situated between Vadodara and Ahmedabad. The distance of the city from Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat is 101 km. Railways Anand is a major railway junction. Godhra and Dakor, two important Hindu religious spots are connected to the city via a broad gauge line. Main Line Multiple Units or MEMUs run on this itinerary. In addition, a few passenger trains are also available that offer usual services. It is linked to Khambat (also known as Cambay) via a branch line as well. Diesel Multiple Units or DMUs run on the itinerary. However, they are yet to get electrification. There are five platforms in Anand Railway Junction. Platforms 1, 2, 3, and 5 are on the main line and platform number 4 lies on the branch line connecting Godhra. A new platform is being built on the branch line from the Godhra line connecting Ahmedabad, which will create a triangle. Roadways The National Express highway which connects Vadodara to Ahmedabad, runs across Anand as well. Airports The closest airports to the city are Ahmedabad and Baroda airports. The distance from the city is 65 Km and 40 Km respectively. Popular Festivals and Tourist Attractions in Anand The most famous festival in Anand is the Navratri. The festivities are organized with traditional dances such as Dandia and Garba. The mandir at Dakor is a famous tourist spot in the city and is located at 94 km from Ahmedabad and Vadodara. The mandir is dedicated to Lord Krishna. Other tourist attractions in the city include the following: Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Veer Vithalbhai Patel Memorial The Amul Dairy Cooperative Museum of Anand Darbar Ghat Jain Temple of Stambhan Parshvanath Jinalaya BD Rao College Museum Swaminarayan Mandir Popular Hotels in Anand The most famous hotels in the city are as follows: Madhubhan Resort & Spa Savshanti Anandam Club Hotel Laksh Residency Hotel Pooja International Hotel Surabhi Regency Hotel Relax Hotel Decent Hotel Surya Motel Inn La Casa Inn Rama Residency Hotel Last Updated on : 01/09/2013 Cities in Gujarat Ahmedabad Ambaji Amreli Anand Bharuch Bhavnagar Bhuj Bilimora Dahod Botad Veraval Jetpur Navagadh Dwarka Gandhinagar Garia Godhra Jamnagar Junagadh Navsari Palanpur Mahesana Muzaffarpur Patan Mandvi Porbandar Rajkot Somnath Surat Surendranagar Vadodara Valsad Vapi Palitana Gandhidham Nadiad Morbi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule