Cities in Goa, Goa cities map Home » Maps » Goa » Cities in Goa   Cities in Goa Panaji Calangute Vasco da Gama Margao Mapusa गोवा का नक्शा About Goa Weather History Culture Goa Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Railway Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Agriculture Map Forest Map Elevation Map Mineral Map Industries Map Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Goa Tourism Places to visit in Goa Goa Beaches Churches in Goa Wildlife Sanctuaries Map   Hotels in Goa Goa Hotels Candolim Hotels Panaji Hotels Calangute Hotels Arossim Hotels Vasco Da Gama Hotels Varca Hotels Calangute Hotels Baga Hotels Cavelossim Hotels       &nbsp More... Christmas in Goa Goa Carnival How to Reach Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Getting Around Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities in Goa Medical Colleges Ubersichtskarte von Goa Bezirke von Goa       Goa Cities Cities in Goa Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map showing all major cities of Goa. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Calangute City Map Mapusa City Map Margao City Map Panaji City Map Vasco Da Gama City Map Situated on the western coastline of India, the cities in Goa are known for there exceptional charm and appeal throughout the world. Goa was once famous for being the hangouts of the hippies. Even after them, the appeal of the cities in Goa leaves the tourists breathless. Goa is split into two districts, North Goa with the capital city of Panaji and South Goa with places such as Vasco da Gama and Margao.. The cities in Goa are dotted with colonial structures, smiling people, lively music, colourful festivals and virgin beaches. The attraction of Goa is equally distributed in all the cities in Goa. Here is a brief list of some of the Major and most Fascinating cities in Goa: Arambol: this is one city in Goa where can live fairly well on very little money. It is also a one place that hosts rocking parties. Canacona: located in the South District of Goa, Canacona was ceded to the Portuguese by the Raja of Sund in the treaty of 1791. The Canacona district was among the last parts of the territory to be absorbed into the Novas Conquistas, and has retained a distinctly Hindu feel. Candolim and Fort Aguada: Built by the Portuguese in 1612, with a church, the Fort is one of the main bastions commanding the entrance into the Mandovi River. The new lighthouse can be visited between 4:00 to 5:30 pm. The barracks - Aguda Jail - lies along the Sinquerim beach, too is worth a see. Dona Paula: The place is named after Dona Paula de Menzes, daughter of a viceroy in colonial India. It is said that she threw herself off the cliff, when refused permission to marry a local fisherman, Gaspar Dias. Dona Paula is located seven kilometers west of the Indian state of Goa's capital Panaji. Dona Paula Beach is nestled on the southern side of the rocky hammer-shaped headlands that divide the Zuari and Mandovi estuaries. Mapusa: A small town clustered around the Mount (Alto), Mapusa is the place from where you can buy things of every day need. It forms the hub of North Goa with an even blend of residential and commercial establishments. Its 13 kms away from Panaji, a share-taxi or a bus will take you there. Known popularly for its Friday market, people from all over Goa come here to buy and sell their wares. The bustling market of Mapusa stocked with almost all types of items is one major attraction of the state. Margao: This sleepy town of Goa is a fine combination of culture and commerce. The main population center of South Goa is Margao, the capital of Salcete Province. It is the cultural capital of the state. The town still has reminders of the Portuguese past. The old Margao church is worth a visit and the covered market is the best of its kind in the whole of Goa. Mormugoa: This is one of the cities in Goa which is 34 kms from the state capital Panjim. The port city Mormugoa boasts one of India's finest natural harbors. Old Goa: Old Goa is 9 km from the East of Panjim. This is one of the cities in Goa which is very popular for its churches and cathedrals. Some of the old buildings are converted into museums maintained by Archaeological Survey of India. Panaji: Also known as Panjim, it is the capital city of Goa. It is also the most ideal gateway to the others parts of the state. It is popularly known as the seat of the Government. Panaji houses the head offices of most business concerns. It is a perfect amalgam of old and new, the elegant city of Panjim has it own vibrant history. Panaji and is one of the India's smallest and pleasantest state capitals and is located on the south bank of the wide Mandovi River. Pernem: Set between the Chapora and Arondem rivers, it forms a part of the Novas Conquistas area. The Taluka of Pernem is predominantly Hindu. It is Goa's northernmost district and one of its least explored regions. Ponda: Also known as Antruz Mahal, Ponda is known as the Hindu heartland of Goa. It is so called because of the concentration of culture, music, drama and poetry. There are a large number of predominant Hindu temples and monuments. Ponda is just 28 km from Panjim, the state capital. It houses the temples of Lord Mangesh (Shiva), Lord Nagesh, Lord Ganapati, Lord Ramnath and the Goddesses Mahalasa and Shantdurga. Vasco Da Gama: Goa's most cosmopolitan city, Vasco-Da-Gama, also known as Vasco. It lies on the narrow western tip of the Mormugao peninsula, overlooking the mouth of the Zuari River. Vasco da Gama is 29 kms southwest of Panjim, the state's capital and is one of the major tourist hubs of the state Goa. Last Updated on : 25/04/2013 Places to see in Goa Dudsagar Waterfall Goa State Museum Basilica of Bom Jesus Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Beaches in Goa Temples in Goa Candolim Beach Colva Beach Anjuna Beach Arambol Beach Forts in Goa Forests in Goa Varca Beach Benaulim Beach Nehru Stadium Goa Waterfalls Wildlife Sanctuaries Churches in Goa             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule