Terms and Conditions | FAO | Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations العربية ﻿中文 english français Русский Español FAO.org About FAO In Action Countries Themes Media Publications Statistics Partnerships Terms and Conditions Scam Alert Report fraud Licence request Print Send Home  > Contact us  > Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions REUSE OF WEB CONTENT Content on www.fao.org , its affiliated websites and specific pages (collectively "the FAO website") is protected by copyright. To ensure wide dissemination of its information, FAO is committed to making its content freely available and encourages the use, reproduction and dissemination of the text, multimedia and data products presented. Except where otherwise indicated, content may be copied, printed and downloaded for private study, research and teaching purposes, or for use in non-commercial products or services, provided that appropriate acknowledgement of FAO as the source and copyright holder is given and that FAO's endorsement of users' views, products or services is not stated or implied in any way. FAO encourages unrestricted use of news releases provided on the FAO website, and no formal permission is required to reproduce these materials. All requests for translation and adaptation rights, and for resale and other commercial use rights should be addressed to copyright@fao.org or submitted via the online Licence Request Form when downloading. RECOMMENDED CITATION: [© FAO] [Year of publication] [Title of content] [Page number (for publications)] [Location on FAO website] [Date accessed and/or downloaded] PHOTOGRAPHS Where FAO is the exclusive copyright holder, conditions for reuse of photographs on the FAO website are the same as those for other content, with the exception that photographs must not be modified without prior permission. Where the copyright ownership is shared between FAO and the photographer (or where ownership cannot be determined from the FAO website), permission must be requested for any reuse beyond downloading for private use, research and teaching purposes. Permission must be requested for any commercial use, advertising, marketing, storage or third-party distribution of FAO photographs. FAO reserves the right to withhold distribution and/or permission to reproduce FAO photographic material should intended use be considered inappropriate. FAO photographs must be credited each time they are published. The recommended citation format for photographs is FAO/[name of photographer]. Please send the URL address in which the photograph(s) appear to photo-library@fao.org . NON-FAO CONTENT The FAO website may include third party copyright material for which rights and permissions must be obtained from the copyright holder(s) indicated. USE OF FAO EMBLEM The FAO emblem (official logo) is the corporate identifier and official seal of the Organization, and it is protected under international treaties and conventions on intellectual property. Its use is highly restricted and is prohibited without prior permission. Requests for use of the FAO emblem for any reason whatsoever, whether or not in association with other logos, must be addressed to copyright@fao.org . If permission for use of the FAO emblem is granted, instructions for its placement and display, including related disclaimers, must be strictly adhered to. The use and reproduction of content containing the FAO emblem must not be in association with advertising or with the names of proprietary products and must not imply FAO's endorsement of products or services in any way. FAO reserves the right to request the immediate removal of its emblem from unauthorized websites or products. LINKING TO THE FAO WEBSITE FAO encourages users to establish hyperlinks to the FAO website. Prior permission is not required, under the following conditions: Hyperlinks to the FAO website must not: infringe FAO's rights, including its emblem and logos, name or acronym and intellectual property rights; be used for the promotion of an organization, company or commercial products or services. Therefore: hyperlinks must appear with the complete FAO URL; frames or other visual enhancement tools must not be created around FAO pages; the FAO logo should not be included when linking to the FAO website, unless prior permission has been granted (see Use of FAO emblem) DISCLAIMERS The designations employed and the presentation of information on the FAO website do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of FAO concerning the legal or development status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. The mention of specific companies or products of manufacturers, whether or not these have been patented, does not imply that these have been endorsed or recommended by FAO in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. The views expressed in material made available on the FAO website are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of FAO. Information on this site is provided on an "as is" and "as available" basis. FAO makes every effort to ensure, but does not guarantee, the accuracy, completeness or authenticity of the information on the FAO website. FAO reserves the right to alter, limit or discontinue any part of this service at its discretion. Under no circumstances shall FAO be liable for any loss, damage, liability or expense suffered that is claimed to result from the use of information posted on this site, including without limitation, any fault, error, omission, interruption or delay. Hyperlinks to non-FAO websites do not imply any official endorsement of or responsibility on the part of FAO for the opinions, ideas, data or products presented at these locations, or guarantee the validity of the information provided. The sole purpose of links to non-FAO sites is to indicate further information available on related topics. The information is provided on the basis that users accessing the platform assume responsibility for assessing its relevance, accuracy and suitability for application. No part of these Terms and Conditions shall constitute or be interpreted as a waiver of the privileges and immunities of FAO. DISCUSSION FORUMS The FAO website may contain message or communication facilities, including specialized discussion forums. When participating, users agree not to: defame, abuse, harass, threaten or otherwise violate the rights of others; publish, post, distribute or disseminate defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent or unlawful material; upload or attach files that contain software or other material protected by intellectual property laws unless the user owns or controls the rights and has received all necessary permissions; upload, email, transmit or otherwise make available unsolicited advertising of any goods or services, or conduct or forward surveys, contests, "spam" or chain letters, etc. Users specifically acknowledge that FAO is not liable for the conduct of any other user. PRIVACY POLICY FAO's Privacy Policy covers the collection and sharing of visitors' information on all sites within the FAO website. NON-PERSONAL INFORMATION In general, users may browse the FAO website without revealing any personal information. The only information gathered during general browsing is from standard server logs. This includes user's IP (Internet Protocol) address, domain name, browser type and operating system. It also includes the files downloaded, pages visited and the dates and times of those visits. Such information is used internally for the purpose of website traffic analysis only. PERSONAL INFORMATION To register for a newsletter, log on to a specific FAO website requiring registration, request information, provide feedback, apply for a job, join a discussion group or join an electronic mailing list, users will be asked to provide basic personal information such as name, postal address and email address. This information is collected only with the user's knowledge and permission, and it is kept in FAO databases and mailing lists directly related to the services provided. Parts of the FAO website with specific requirements to collect personal information may publish additional privacy terms specific to that site. Some parts of the FAO website registration processes use cookies to save details for the next visit. This helps FAO provide a better service. When joining an electronic discussion group, other participants of the discussion group (including non-FAO employees) may see personal information that the user has volunteered. For open discussion groups, this information will be public. SECURITY For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available to all users, this FAO computer system employs software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. Except for authorized investigations and to maintain required correspondence files, no other attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage habits. Raw data logs are used to determine the number of users and, occasionally, which general domains are accessing the FAO website. The FAO website does not use persistent cookies and data gathered are scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with United Nations and FAO guidelines. Any information provided to FAO by users is held with the utmost care and security, and is not used in any manner other than that set forth in this Privacy Policy, or in any additional site-specific policies, without users' explicit consent. All FAO employees who have access to or are associated with the processing of personal data are obliged to respect the confidentiality of official business matters, including personal data. Notification of amendments FAO reserves the right to amend this policy at its own discretion. Notifications of any significant amendment will be announced on www.fao.org . Contact us Terms and Conditions Scam Alert Report fraud Employment Procurement Governing Bodies Office of the Inspector General Evaluation Legal and Ethics Office FAO Departments and Offices Agriculture and Consumer Protection Economic and Social Development Fisheries and Aquaculture Forestry Technical Cooperation Regional Office for Africa Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office for the Near East and North Africa Country Offices Follow us on                  Download our App © FAO, 2015