Who We Are | Three Corner Coffee Roaster Home Who We Are About the Coffee Partners Our Store Find Our Coffee Latest Events January 2012... Three Corner Coffee Roaster conducts a search for coffee in Cambodia’s eastern province of Mondulkiri. While visiting the indigenous farmers of the Panong tribe and the other Khmer farmers, we find that startlingly few coffee plantations are still up and running, most have been left to the jungle or have been cut down… Testimonials Hey guys I really am enjoying the coffee I brought back with me in Aug/Sept to Texas. I have shared bags with close friends.  –January 3 at 8:53pm Kari Ekberg-Baer (via Facebook) Gallery Final Quality Control Check Since we at Three Corner Coffee Roaster desire to have the best coffee available from the Southeast Asia region, we use three-ply bags, with a one-way degassing valve that helps to release CO2, helping to safeguard the coffee on its journey from our roastery to your cup. Each final product is double checked by the women of the White Lotus Project for packaging mistakes or other defects, and each package is sealed with an assurance that this is truly a high quality Khmer product. Mission Statement At Three Corner Coffee Roaster we are committed to: encouraging the industrial development of the Cambodian coffee industry, helping of underprivileged Khmer men and women, and producing high quality Khmer products for responsible consumers. Green Bean Quality Control The next step in the green bean processing is what primarily ensures that the coffee produced by Three Corner Coffee Roaster is at or above the quality levels of the best international brands. Our staff painstakingly search by hand through every kilo of green beans to ensure that only the best beans get sent to the roaster. No over-ripened, bug-eaten, over-dried, or un-husked beans, no trash such as stick stones, and nothing else that might negatively affect the taste of our coffee. Cambodian Coffee History The Annamite Mountains that extend through both Vietnam and Laos also make up the Cambodian northeastern “highlands” of Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. The predominant red soil of these provinces is excellent for a multitude of crops including rubber, most tropical fruits, black pepper, cassava, cashews, and of course coffee. Coffee farmers in these highlands are Our Cambodian Coffee Three Corner Coffee Roaster currently sources its Cambodian Robusta coffee from plantations in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. Our major supply source is a single plantation between Ratanakiri’s provincial capitol of Banlung and the Cambodian-Vietnamese border, but our desire is to start sourcing beans from the indigenous tribes and the small Khmer plantations as they are able to start taking care of their coffee trees again. Primary Partner In Cambodia’s capital city of Phnom Penh: we partner with the White Lotus Project to provide a safe and supportive working environment for the women that are being, or have been, helped by the counseling, nurturing, and training done through this project. Post-Roasting Process The necessary freshness of the coffee really depends on the person drinking the coffee, some like it roasted that day, some like it at least less than a week old, and others don’t mind drinking it just as long as it isn’t expired yet (sometimes up to two years). Our research and testing has shown that the freezing process adds longevity to our coffee’s fresh-roasted flavor. Connoisseurs have done taste testings to determine if the flavor deteriorates when freezing immediately after roasting, but when compared with fresh-roasted coffee, statics even showed that they preferred the coffee frozen for one month to the fresh-roasted coffee. Quality in Storage Our quality control begins with how we store the green coffee beans before they are roasted. The coffee cherries are harvested during the months of October and November,then dried over the following few weeks to within 12% moisture, and de-husked. Keeping the moisture content of the green coffee beans at 12% will allow them to remain fresh, with full flavor and aroma, during the year and up until a possible two years. U.S. Distributor In the United States: we have established a relationship with a non-profit organization called SoDE, that has the goal of creating sustainability and changing economic situations in order to be part of the solution to ending human-trafficking. Hot-Air Roaster The third step in our production process is the roasting. We choose to roast single-origin beans only, meaning that only beans from a single location are roasted at a time. We maximize the flavor potential of each bean in order to provide the best possible flavor for each style of roast or blend. To gain an incredible consistency and quality of roast we choose to use a fluidized-bed (hot-air) roaster. Our roaster, based upon the Sivetz model, was designed, tested, and built in Cambodia Business Ethics For us at Three Corner Coffee Roaster, we choose to roast and produce a socially and culturally sensitive coffee product of high quality and hygienic standards. We believe our product will give a good reputation to products produced in Cambodia and by the Cambodian people, but this isn’t where it should end. We want to see more products produced by Cambodia and services offered by Cambodians that attain to and even go beyond our social, cultural, and quality standards; as much as we can we try to support and encourage such ethical and honest businesses as our own in hopes that this will pave the way for a new generation of business in Cambodia. Business Ethics For us at Three Corner Coffee Roaster, we choose to roast and produce a socially and culturally sensitive coffee product of high quality and hygienic standards. We believe our product will give a good reputation to products produced in Cambodia and by the Cambodian people, but this isn’t where it should end. We want to see more products produced by Cambodia and services offered by Cambodians that attain to and even go beyond our social, cultural, and quality standards; as much as we can we try to support and encourage such ethical and honest businesses as our own in hopes that this will pave the way for a new generation of business in Cambodia. U.S. Distributor In the United States: we have established a relationship with a non-profit organization called SoDE, that has the goal of creating sustainability and changing economic situations in order to be part of the solution to ending human-trafficking. Post-Roasting Process The necessary freshness of the coffee really depends on the person drinking the coffee, some like it roasted that day, some like it at least less than a week old, and others don’t mind drinking it just as long as it isn’t expired yet (sometimes up to two years). Our research and testing has shown that the freezing process adds longevity to our coffee’s fresh-roasted flavor. Connoisseurs have done taste testings to determine if the flavor deteriorates when freezing immediately after roasting, but when compared with fresh-roasted coffee, statics even showed that they preferred the coffee frozen for one month to the fresh-roasted coffee. Green Bean Quality Control The next step in the green bean processing is what primarily ensures that the coffee produced by Three Corner Coffee Roaster is at or above the quality levels of the best international brands. Our staff painstakingly search by hand through every kilo of green beans to ensure that only the best beans get sent to the roaster. No over-ripened, bug-eaten, over-dried, or un-husked beans, no trash such as stick stones, and nothing else that might negatively affect the taste of our coffee. Our Cambodian Coffee Three Corner Coffee Roaster currently sources its Cambodian Robusta coffee from plantations in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. Our major supply source is a single plantation between Ratanakiri’s provincial capitol of Banlung and the Cambodian-Vietnamese border, but our desire is to start sourcing beans from the indigenous tribes and the small Khmer plantations as they are able to start taking care of their coffee trees again. Hot-Air Roaster The third step in our production process is the roasting. We choose to roast single-origin beans only, meaning that only beans from a single location are roasted at a time. We maximize the flavor potential of each bean in order to provide the best possible flavor for each style of roast or blend. To gain an incredible consistency and quality of roast we choose to use a fluidized-bed (hot-air) roaster. Our roaster, based upon the Sivetz model, was designed, tested, and built in Cambodia Final Quality Control Check Since we at Three Corner Coffee Roaster desire to have the best coffee available from the Southeast Asia region, we use three-ply bags, with a one-way degassing valve that helps to release CO2, helping to safeguard the coffee on its journey from our roastery to your cup. Each final product is double checked by the women of the White Lotus Project for packaging mistakes or other defects, and each package is sealed with an assurance that this is truly a high quality Khmer product. Quality in Storage Our quality control begins with how we store the green coffee beans before they are roasted. The coffee cherries are harvested during the months of October and November,then dried over the following few weeks to within 12% moisture, and de-husked. Keeping the moisture content of the green coffee beans at 12% will allow them to remain fresh, with full flavor and aroma, during the year and up until a possible two years. Primary Partner In Cambodia’s capital city of Phnom Penh: we partner with the White Lotus Project to provide a safe and supportive working environment for the women that are being, or have been, helped by the counseling, nurturing, and training done through this project. Mission Statement At Three Corner Coffee Roaster we are committed to: encouraging the industrial development of the Cambodian coffee industry, helping of underprivileged Khmer men and women, and producing high quality Khmer products for responsible consumers. Cambodian Coffee History The Annamite Mountains that extend through both Vietnam and Laos also make up the Cambodian northeastern “highlands” of Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. The predominant red soil of these provinces is excellent for a multitude of crops including rubber, most tropical fruits, black pepper, cassava, cashews, and of course coffee. Coffee farmers in these highlands are How it all began… Three Corner Coffee Roaster was started in 2010 by Kirk and Kelle Richter, missionaries who have been working in Cambodia since 2002.  Beginning with an initial desire to help Cambodians be able to see true economic freedom, they also felt the need to help Christian ministries, NGO’s, and missionaries to continue their humanitarian, as well as their evangelistic efforts with the people of Cambodia after the economic crisis of 2008/2009.  They asked God to give them a means to fulfill this desire to help Cambodians and Cambodian ministries or missionaries, and were given many opportunities to speak with another missionary couple that were sourcing green coffee beans from various countries to roast and sell in the US to help fund their ministry in Sudan. Kirk and Kelle originally sent green coffee beans from Cambodia to the US to do the same thing, but after a bit of thought, they realized that production being done in Cambodia helped to meet more needs than sending it away to the US. Kirk started researching different ways in which to roast coffee, and after going over a few different designs, the fluidized-bed (hot-air) roaster designed by Michael Sivetz, seemed to fill all the requirements needed to roast in Cambodia.  Because of his engineering experience, Kirk was able to design and construct a roaster here in Cambodia from open source blueprints available on the web.  Three Corner Coffee’s logo, branding, and color schemes were overseen by Kelle and continue to be, along with the great taste of our coffee, the compliment received most, coming from almost every customer that walks through our doors.   Mission Statement At Three Corner Coffee Roaster we are committed to:  encouraging the industrial development of the Cambodian coffee industry, helping of underprivileged Khmer men and women, and producing high quality Khmer products for responsible consumers. Read more Our Family Kirk and Kelle Richter Founders Kirk and Kelle Richter are from state of Texas and originally came to Cambodia in 2002 to work in construction. After their projects had been completed they returned to the United States.  Cambodia, however, never left their hearts and in 2008, Kirk and Kelle and their family returned to Cambodia as missionaries. Their Vision for TCCR: As a business, Kirk and Kelle Richter set up Three Corner Coffee Roaster as a Christian Social Enterprise in hopes that a truly sustainable form of ethical business might be established in Cambodia.  Their vision and the goals that they have set are being added to and will continue to be added to with each new employee.  To see Three Corner Coffee’s family grow, develop, and strive to maximize the social benefit it renders to Cambodia and it’s peoples is what lies closest to their hearts. Joshua Jones Operations Good day!  My name is Josh and I head up Operations for Three Corner Coffee.  I am originally from Minnesota, USA, but have spent most of my life on Cambodian soil, so I guess I am a fair mix of both cultures.  I enjoy taking trips by motorcycle around to various parts of the country, but still prefer the beach than to anywhere else. Personal Goals: Though I see myself as a traveler,  Cambodia is home base and where I will probably spend most of the rest of my life. I do want to buy land and have my own plantation, but overall, I would like to play a good part in the growth that is so quickly happening in Cambodia, and help to keep Cambodia for the Cambodians. Vision for TCCR: My hope is to see Three Corner Coffee continue to expand its vision to include the visions and goals of each member of our staff (family) and for it to continue being an example of ethical and honest business so as to give true sustainability to Cambodia’s economy. Thavy Varin Administration and Accounts Hello everyone! I am Thavy and I control the Administrative functions and Accounts for Three Corner Coffee. My home province is Banteay Meanchey and I am a pleasant person, though at times a bit motherly to all the other women that work here. Personal Goals: I do especially enjoy flowers and find them uplifting and joy-giving. In the future, I would definitely consider opening my own flowershop to help uplift and bring joy to others. Vision for TCCR: I would like to see Three Corner Coffee’s clients successful through their use of high quality Cambodian coffee and also to see that success passed on to the Cambodian coffee farmers. Rithy Sok Sales and Marketing Hi! My name is Rithy, but you can call me Win, I am over the Sales and Marketing department for Three Corner Coffee.  I am from Phnom Penh, and am more of the slow and steady type, giving good thought to situations before jumping to conclusions.  I like to ride bicycles and prefer peace and quit to fast paced city life. Personal Goals: In the following 10 years, I would like to own and operate my own coffee plantation that would serve the dual purpose of supporting me and my family, as well as be used as a ministry to train and give knowledge and employment to anyone in need of them. Vision for TCCR: I want to see Three Corner Coffee to continue growing so that the impact it is having on the lives of the underprivileged Cambodian men and women it helps and trains and provides employment to  will be that much greater. MornPisey Sam Production Soursdey! My name is Pisey and I supervise the Production line for Three Corner Coffee.  I originally come from Kampong thom Province and I prefer peace and quiet, except that is, when I am joking around or helping to train the other women who work with me. Personal Goals: My goal for the future is to save up enough money and someday, open up my own café or restaurant to help give employment opportunities to other orphaned Khmers such as myself! Vision for TCCR: As far as Three Corner Coffee goes, I would like to see it successfully continue in its mission to help underprivileged Khmer men and women with job training and employment, so they might also see success in their own careers and lives. Vorleak Yan Delivery Hey! My name is Voleak and I do most of the deliveries for Three Corner Coffee, and I also provide safe transportation for our White Lotus staff going and coming from work.  My home province is Svay Reang, but I grew up in Phnom Penh.  I am easy going and love to joke around a lot.  In my spare time I try to find extra work for myself, but if I cannot, I do enjoy playing ping pong and other sports. Personal Goals: Since I was young, I was interested in having my own park (natural) that visitors or tourists might use to rest and relax. I also would like to own my own farm, most any type will do.  I want these businesses to, not only provide a good life for me and my family, but also to give me extra time to use to help my local church. Vision for TCCR: The most important goal that I believe Three Corner Coffee has set for itself is the encouragement, the training, and the love that it wants to show to the underprivileged staff.  It is very important for them to receive confidence in themselves and in their ability to be an integral part of our company (family). Sereyvuth Sem Retail Sales and Graphic Design Hello! My name is Vuth, I work in Sales and Marketing, but specifically in retail and graphic design, for Three Corner Coffee. I am from Phnom Penh, and am rather orderly and like to keep things simple, whether in life or in work. I enjoy playing volleyball or soccer when I have free time with friends. Personal Goals: In the future, I would like to own a car rental business as well as still continuing to work for Three Corner Coffee.  Gaining success in my work and especially in my business would help to to support my family and also be used to help ministries continue to spread the gospel and provide help to their surrounding communities. Vision for TCCR: I want to see Three Corner Coffee’s influence amongst other businesses continue to grow so that it may continue to stand as a successful example of an honest ethical business in Cambodia, helping to encourage other Cambodians to also conduct their business in a similar manner. Choing Nhun Roasting and Maintenance My name is Choing and I operate the roasting machine and do general maintenance for Three Corner Coffee Roaster.  My hometown is located in the province of Kampong Thom and I am a rather laid back and patient person.  I prefer to read books and study, but also enjoy playing ping pong and other sports in my spare time. Personal Goals: I have much experience with mechanical/electrical maintenance and would like to have my own business servicing these types of systems.  I would be happy if my business would bring me back to help my home town by giving training to others there so as to give them better jobs and also by supporting those in desperate situations. Vision for TCCR: I would like to see the Cambodian coffee industry to see success as a whole, from the coffee farmers to the cafés, and also that the people of Cambodia would be able to know the flavor and quality that their own coffee beans have, so that they might have pride in it. Women of the White Lotus Project The women of the White Lotus Project that are employed by Three Corner Coffee Roaster make up a very important part of our team and deserve credit for their work, but not in such a way that would compromise the healing they are undergoing.  We choose to support these women by providing them a safe and supportive working environment through which they can receive job training that is critical to their future success.  We want for them to go beyond the labels placed on them and to find success in their own lives, so we respect their right to privacy. Please feel free to check out White Lotus Project’s website here for more information. Direct Trade vs. Fair Trade The method through which Three Corner Coffee Roaster chooses to source its green Cambodian coffee beans is based upon the Direct Trade Method. Read More Cambodian Missions Support Program We at Three Corner Coffee Roaster and SoDE Clothing, Coffee, & Crafts desire to help financially support your favorite missions in Cambodia… Read More © 2012 Three Corner Coffee , All right reserved. Developed by Palm Leaf Group