Buland Darwaza Destinations Destinations Travel To | Hotels Hotel Search Search by Location Search by Place | Flight Schedule Flight Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Bus Schedule Bus Schedule Search by Place Source Destination | Railway Time Table RAILWAYS Find Your Train Agra Travel Tourist Map About Agra Weather Shopping Hotels in Agra How to Reach Taj Mahotsav Travel Agents Travel Tips Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri How to Reach Agra Agra Airport Agra Distance Chart Flights to Agra Agra Buses Trains to Agra Agra Route Map Delhi to Agra Varanasi to Agra Bharatpur to Agra Agra to Nanital Agra to Dehradun Agra to Lucknow Agra to Jaipur Agra to Allahabad Agra to Ajmer Tourist Destinations near Agra Mathura Travel Vrindavan Travel Bharatpur Travel Delhi Travel Jaipur Travel Ranthambore Travel more.. Agra Map Location Map Railway Map District Map Road Map more.. Home » Agra » Buland Darwaza Buland Darwaza The giant pillars of the Buland Darwaza are an artistic wonder in themselves. Quotes from the Quran have been inscribed on the pillars of the gateway, and decorated with fine carvings. A total of 42 steps leads to the front end of the gate, which looks imposing even from a distance. Visitors have to climb these stairs to reach this epic monument. The construction of this huge marvel has been accomplished with a mix of red, white and black marble and stones. As visible in the image, the structure has been built in a semi-octagonal shape with pillars on the corners and chhatris over them. This 15-storied mighty gateway is a fine example of the Hindu and the Persian architectural styles. Built by the Mughal Emperor Akbar, it represents the zenith of Mughal art. The visitors must not miss the intricate designs on the walls of the monument, as it took around 12 years to design and erect this biggest gate of the world. The carvings are a treat for history and photography enthusiasts. About Buland Darwaza is a mammoth monument that was built during the times of the Mughal Emperor Akbar. It is a massive gate and is also known to be the highest gate in the world. It is one of the finest examples of Mughal architecture that combines the magnificence of red and also buff sandstone. The Buland Darwaza functions as the main entrance to the mosque and till today stands as a testimony to the victorious rule of Akbar. Many people also call it the 'Gate of Magnificence'. History In the year 1573, the Emperor Akbar built this huge monument to commemorate his victory over Khandesh (or Gujarat, as it is now known). It was built by Muhammad of Ghazani. It took almost 12 years to complete the structure. Fatehpur Sikri was an important place during the time of Akbar, and Agra was the capital. Fatehpur Sikri has many other important monuments, but this one towers above all. The structure is the most beautiful one that has been built with great dedication and passion. Location Buland Darwaza is located in the town of Fatehpur Sikri in Agra in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The beautiful city of Agra that has the world famous Taj Mahal is only 43 km from Fatehpur Sikri. Architecture The name Buland Darwaza comes from the Persian language, which means "mighty gate". The monument is an imposing construction and stands almost 43 feet tall on a majestic pedestal and is 54 feet above the ground. One has to climb 42 steps in order to reach the gate. The architecture has a great influence of Persian and Hindu styles. There are inscriptions from the Holy Quran that can be seen on the pillars at the front. The calligraphy is quite unique and was a favourite motif of the Mughal Emperors. The gateway has one famous inscription that says, 'The work is a bridge, just pass over but, never build houses'. The whole structure comprises two aspects, one is the frontal, the main aspect, having the portal look, and the posterior one, that comprises a much plainer portion that is in the mosque courtyard. There are three planes on the central face, and smaller ones on each side. The monument is made of red sandstone, white and black marble, and is semi-octagonal in design. It has pillars along with chhatri on the top. Best time to visit The best to visit the site is during the winter season, that is from November to March. The summers are very hot, with the heat hovering around intolerable levels. The Buland Darwaza opens from 8 a.m.in the morning to 7 p.m. in the evening. The place is open on all days. The entry fee is Rs. 10 for Indians and the citizens of the SAARC nations, and Rs. 750 for foreign tourists. The ticket also includes entry to Fatehpur Sikri. Last Updated on : January 16, 2014 Tourist Places in Agra Taj Mahal Agra Fort Fatehpur Sikri Tomb of Itmad ul Daulah Jama Masjid Tomb of Akbar Mangleshwar Temple Chini ka Rauza Jehangir Palace Sikandra Fort Taj Mahal Garden Moti Masjid Octagonal Tower Taj Mahal Museum Shah Jahan Garden Spiritual Museum Jodha Bai ka Rauza Guru ka Taal Mehtab Bagh Bageshwarnath Temple Jama Masjid Fatehpur Sikri About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule