IMF Primary Commodity Prices What's New Site Map Site Index Contact Us Glossary Search Search IMF Entire Site IMF Survey Magazine Home About the IMF Research Country Info News Videos Data and Statistics Publications IMF Primary Commodity Prices Blog: Seven Questions About the Recent Oil Price Slump December 22, 2014 Oil prices have plunged recently, affecting everyone: producers, exporters, governments, and consumers. Overall, we see this as a shot in the arm for the global economy. There is however much more to this complex and evolving story. In this blog we examine the mechanics of the oil market now and in the future, the implications for various groups of countries as well as for financial stability, and how policymakers should address the impact on their economies. >> Commodity Market Report July 2014 Commodity prices rose by 0.5% in June, with gains in energy prices that were partly offset by declines in agriculture and metals. During the first six months (12/13 – 6/14), commodity prices rose 0.4% with moderate increases in energy and agriculture nearly offset by a 10% drop in metals—the latter due to weak demand and rising production capacity. A few commodities recorded large gains on supply issues, namely Arabica coffee, swine and nickel. >> Aid and Oil Rabah Arezki and Ritwik Banerjee Finance & Development, March 2014, Vol. 51, No. 1 In recent years many developing economies, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, have found a new source of homegrown wealth that offers the same type of budgetary assistance as development aid—with none of the strings that donor countries often attach to how it can be used or reforms countries must make to continue receiving it. Across Africa, discoveries of large oil fields are changing the financial picture for many developing economies.¬ The paper explores the impact of these discoveries on foreign aid and offers policy recommendations. International Conference on Food Price Volatility: Causes and Challenges Rabat, Morocco February 25-26, 2014 The conference aims to stimulate discussion about the causes and socio-economic challenges of food price volatility. The conference will tackle both 'micro' issues such as drivers of food prices and policies to ensure food price security, as well as 'macro' issues (e.g., the appropriate monetary policy response to food and fuel price fluctuations). Leading academics and policy experts will make presentations followed by general discussions. Prices & Forecasts The Primary Commodity Price data are updated monthly. Last update: May 15, 2015 Note: Change to natural gas price units Indices of Primary Commodity Prices, 2005-2015 By group, in terms of U.S. $ By group, in terms of SDRs By commodity, in terms of U.S. $ Index charts , 2000-2015 Market Prices for Non-Fuel and Fuel Commodities, 2012-2015 Annual, quarterly, and monthly prices Weekly prices Monthly Data Download the data (xls file) Price Forecasts Download data projections actual prices through 03/05/15 Download data projections actual prices through 01/16/15 Price Outlook & Risks May 2015 April 2015 More FAQs Frequently Asked Questions on commodity prices and indices Commodity Market Monthly May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 More IMF Commodity Price Indices (2005=100) IMF Primary Commodity Price System Commodity Quarterly Review September 2014 June 2014 Commodity Market Review October 2013 April 2013 Featuring Understanding International Commodity Price Fluctuations Capital Flight Risk Unconventional Monetary Policy & Asset Price Risk US Article IV Selected Issues Presentations Energy and the Macroeconomy: the role of natural gas and the U.S. energy boom Employment Impacts of Upstream Oil and Gas Investment in the US Natural Gas Price in Asia: What to Expect More Multimedia Podcasts How Fiscal Policy Can Address Energy's Environmental Impacts More Podcasts Falling Commodity Prices: What it Means for Emerging Markets Related Links IMF Research on Commodities The IMF and Environmental Policy Food and Fuel Crisis Write to us The Commodities Team of the Research Department provides information on primary commodity market developments. Questions about these tables may be directed to commodities@imf.org . Home What's New Site Map Site Index About the IMF Research Country Info News Videos Data and Statistics Publications Copyright and Usage Privacy Policy How to Contact Us Glossary Scam Alert عربي 中文 Français 日本語 Русский Español