Poverty in India | Economy Watch Economy Watch Follow the Money Primary-links World Economy India PM Modi's Reforms are Gaining Traction, but the Road is Long Read more Featured Articles News Desk ECONOMICS Economics Theory Economic Systems Economists Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Inflation Interest Rates Unemployment Political Economy FEATURED ECONOMIES World US China Japan Germany France UK Brazil Russia Italy India Canada Australia Spain Mexico South Korea Indonesia Nigeria Pakistan Singapore South Africa ECONOMIC STATISTICS DATABASE Country Economic Statistics Economic Indicators Price Index Indicators All Regions & Countries Industry Running a Business not the Same as Running a Country Read more Featured Analysis News Desk INDUSTRIES Aerospace Industry Agriculture Automobile Industry Biotechnology Industry Chemical Industry Construction Industry FMCG Industry Food Industry Hospitality Industry IT Industry Nanotechnology Industry Oil & Gas Industry Pharmaceutical Industry Renewable Energy Industry Steel Industry Tourism Industry INDUSTRY RESOURCES Industrial Policy Trade Organisations International Organisations BUSINESS TODAY Business Leaders Business Finance Business Schools Business Etiquette Marketing Mergers & Acquisitions Investing A Penny for your Thoughts on the Pound Read more Featured Articles News Desk COMPANIES & STOCKS Fortune 500 Companies Forbes 2000 Companies Major Companies Stock Exchanges World Stock Markets FUNDS Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) Mutual Funds Pension Funds CURRENCIES & COMMODITIES Commodity Markets Commodity Trading Foreign Exchange Rates Forex Trading Investing in Commodities Money Market BONDS Types of Bonds Bond Markets Corporate Bonds Government Bonds Municipal Bonds Savings Bonds OTHER ASSET CLASSES Fixed Income Futures Gold Investing Individual Savings Account (ISA) Options Private Equity Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Venture Capital INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Capital Investment Investment Planning Modern Portfolio Theory Portfolio Analysis Wealth Management Personal Finance What is Your Sovereign Credit Rating? Read more Featured Analysis News Desk CREDIT CARD TOOLS & RESOURCES Credit Card Companies Credit Card Application Guide Credit Card Comparison Credit Card Guide Credit Card Payment Online Amex Credit Cards Mastercard Credit Cards Visa Credit Cards INTERNATIONAL CREDIT CARDS Australia Credit Cards Canada Credit Cards India Credit Cards Malaysia Credit Cards Singapore Credit Cards UK Credit Cards US Credit Cards INTERNATIONAL BANKS Australia Banks Canada Banks India Banks Malaysia Banks Singapore Banks UK Banks US Banks BANKING Central Banks Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Commercial Banks Investment Banking Online Banking Personal Banking INSURANCE Accident Insurance Automobile Insurance Dental Insurance Fire Insurance General Insurance Health Insurance Home Insurance Life Insurance Sports Insurance Structured Settlements Travel Insurance Insurance Companies Insurance By Country LOANS & MORTGAGES Loans By Category Mortgages By Country Statistics Search April 5, 2010 • Indian Economy • by EconomyWatch Content Poverty in India email facebook 160 linkedin twitter 11 google+ 2 EconomyWatch Content Team Follow The Money  Poverty in India is a major issue. Rural Indians depend on unpredictable agriculture incomes, while urban Indians rely on jobs that are, at best, scarce. Since its independence, the issue of poverty within India has remained a prevalent concern. As of 2010, more than 37% of India’s population of 1.35 billion still lives below the poverty line. More than 22% of the entire rural population and 15% of the urban population of India exists in this difficult physical and financial predicament.  Poverty Situation The division of resources, as well as wealth, is uneven in India - this disparity creates different poverty ratios for different states. For instance, states such as Delhi and Punjab have low poverty ratios. On the other hand, almost half the population in states like Bihar and Orissa live below the poverty line. A number of factors are responsible for poverty in the rural areas of India. Rural populations primarily depend on agriculture, which is highly dependant on rain patterns and the monsoon season. Inadequate rain and improper irrigation facilities can obviously cause low, or in some cases, zero production of crops. Additionally, the Indian family unit is often large, which can amplify the effects of poverty. Also, the caste system still prevails in India, and this is a major reason for rural poverty - people from the lower casts are often deprived of the most basic facilities and opportunities. The government has planned and implemented poverty eradication programs, but the benefits of these programs are yet to bear fruits.   Print Pages(s): 1 2 Next Page   View as one page Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus News Desk South African Economy Underwhelms in the First Quarter Could India be the New Economy to Watch? Study Links Reduction in Alcohol-Related Car Crashes and US Economic Growth China Stocks Surge, Extend Rally Turkey's Ruling Party Suffers over the Economy as the General Election Looms Job Participation Rate Remains a Problem in U.S. Economy More Newsletter Signup We respect your privacy Contributors               Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a finance professor at Peking University’s Guanghua School of Management. Michael Pettis , EconomyWatch Contributor China Reforms: Why Maintaining High Economic Growth Is Impossible When Are Markets Rational? China’s Hidden Debt Problem: An Unavoidable Crisis In The Making? View all contributors Analysis of economics, politics and public policy in East Asia and the Pacific. East Asia Forum , EconomyWatch Contributor India PM Modi's Reforms are Gaining Traction, but the Road is Long Can Jokowi's Government Offer Hope for Indonesia's Ethnic Minorities? Myanmar Will Likely Hold an Election, but Can it Have a Meaningful Outcome? View all contributors Dr Steinbock is an internationally recognized expert of the multipolar world. He focuses on international business, international relations, investment and risk among all major advanced economies and large emerging economies. In addition to advisory activities (www.differencegroup.net), he is affiliated with India China and America Institute (USA), Shanghai Institutes for International Studies (China) and EU Center (Singapore). For more, please see http://www.differencegroup.net/. Research Director of International Business at India China and America Institute (USA) and Visiting Fellow at Shanghai Institutes for International Studies (China) and the EU Center (Singapore). Dan Steinbock , EconomyWatch Contributor India PM Modi's Next Tour Stop in China The Uneven Path to a Post-Sanctions Iran For Now, Chinese Businesses Still Drive e-Commerce View all contributors Asia Pathways is a blog of the Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI). ADBI welcomes contributions to Asia Pathways. Information on how to contribute to the blog is available at our guidelines for authors . Located in Tokyo, Japan, ADBI is the think tank of the Asian Development Bank. Its mission is to identify effective development strategies and improve development management in ADB's developing members countries. ADBI has an extensive network of partners in the Asia and Pacific region and beyond. ADBI's activities are guided by its three strategic priority themes of inclusive and sustainable growth, regional cooperation and integration, and governance for policies and institutions. Asia Pathways , Integrating South Asia with Southeast Asia Asia's 'Demographic Dividend' and Higher Education The Credit Risk Database in Japan is a Model for the Rest of Asia View all contributors Financial markets writer for IG.com, a leading provider of online trading for 40 years. Patrick Foot , Writer