BAE Employment Opportunities | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us BAE Employment Opportunities All full-time permanent staff positions receive benefits from the university. To review a summary of the benefits,  click here .   Graduate Research Assistantship Positions.  Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department,  Oklahoma State University The Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department at Oklahoma State University (located in Stillwater, Oklahoma) has several open Graduate Research Assistantship (GRA) positions for conducting applied research projects on different aspects of sustainable agricultural water management and irrigation engineering. All positions have a strong outreach/extension component and require close collaboration with local producers. The start date could be as early as May 25, 2015, but no later than August 17, 2015. Below please find more information about the projects. Ogallala Aquifer Irrigation Sustainability Study The goal of this project is to measure the overall efficiency and effectiveness of irrigation energy and water usage from the Ogallala aquifer underlying the Oklahoma Panhandle. This project combines the “energy efficiency” of irrigation pumping plants (engine/motor) with “water application efficiency” of center pivot systems to provide a more comprehensive life cycle assessment (LCA) estimate of overall efficiency and sustainability of irrigation in the study area. The graduate student will be involved with mechanical and electrical systems from on-farm activities in collaboration with participating producers to estimate different components of system efficiency. Salt Movement and Accumulation under Subsurface Drip Irrigation The goal of this project is to study the movement and accumulation of salts under subsurface drip irrigation (SDI) systems in southwest Oklahoma to evaluate the current situation and determine the potential of land salinization, as well as appropriate mitigation approaches. The need to conduct this project stems from the increased interest in SDI systems as higher-quality water resources are becoming more limited in the study area due to prolonged droughts. The graduate student will be involved with on-farm experiments in collaboration with participating producers to install sensors and collect required data to run salt balance models. Improving on-farm irrigation management using sensor-based technologies The goal of this project is to utilize a suite of sensor-based technologies to improve irrigation decision making and management at farm scale. The types of sensors to be utilized cover a wide range, including but not limited to flow meters, rain gauges, soil water content sensors, and crop canopy temperature sensors. The graduate student will be involved with on-farm experiments in collaboration with participating producers to install sensors and retrieve collected data. In addition, the student will be in charge of analyzing the data and developing practical guidelines and best management practices for implementing sensor-based technologies. Minimum requirements include a bachelor/master degree in agricultural engineering or a closely related field, as well as the ability to participate in field projects in remote areas. Interested students may apply by sending their resume and a cover letter stating their interest in specific projects and any previous experience to: Dr. Saleh Taghvaeian Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department Oklahoma State University 111 Agricultural Hall Stillwater, OK 74078 (P): 405-744-8395 (F): 405-744-6059 saleh.taghvaeian@okstate.edu Graduate Research Assistantships in Bioprocessing For Fall 2015 and Spring 2016 The bioprocessing research group in the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department is looking for motivated graduate students (PhD). Current team research topics include: microalgae growth, photobioreactor design and operation, algal biomass harvesting technologies, process optimization, conversion of algal biomass to biofuel and other bio-products, waste water treatment, byproduct utilization, value-added processing using environmentally benign technologies. Applicants must have a MS degree in Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering or a closely related field. If interested or would like additional information, please contact: Nurhan Turgut Dunford, PhD, PE, CFS Oklahoma State University Professor Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department, Bioprocessing/Food Processing School of Entrepreneurship, Spears School of Business, Riata Entrepreneurship Faculty Fellow Robert M. Kerr Food and Agricultural Product Center. Oil/oilseed Specialist Room 103, Stillwater, OK 74078 Graduate Research Assistantships in Thermochemical Conversion For Spring 2015 The thermochemical conversion team in the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department is looking for motivated graduate students (MS or PhD) interested in conducting research on thermochemical conversion of biomass for bioenergy production. Potential projects may involve study on biomass gasification and pyrolysis to increase overall energy efficiency, application of heterogeneous catalysts to upgrade syngas and bio-oil, investigation of reaction kinetics, and development of mathematical models to simulate experimental condition and predict products. Applicants must have a B.S. degree in Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or a closely related field. If interested, please contact soon to join in Spring 2015 semester. Ajay Kumar Assistant Professor Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department Oklahoma State University 214-B Agricultural Hall Stillwater, OK -74078 Email: ajay.kumar@okstate.edu Fax: (405)744-6059 Graduate Research Assistantships in Ecological Engineering For Spring or Summer 2015 The ecological engineering research team in the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department is looking for motivated graduate students (MS or PhD) interested in conducting research on ecological engineering topics such as stream restoration and low impact development. We currently have immediate funding for a graduate student (MS or PhD) that would begin in Spring or Summer 2015, to conduct research on recovery and restoration of riparian areas after major tornadoes and associated debris cleanup. Applicants must have a B.S. and/or M.S. degree in Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering, Civil Engineering, Ecological Engineering, or a closely related field. If interested and to request more information, please contact soon to join in the Spring or Summer 2015 semester. Jason R. Vogel, Ph.D., P.E. Associate Professor and Stormwater Specialist Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department Oklahoma State University 218 Agricultural Hall Stillwater, OK  74078 Email: jason.vogel@okstate.edu Telephone: (405) 744-7532 Fax: (405)744-6059 Oklahoma State University is an AA/EEO/E-verify employer committed to diversity. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not be discriminated against based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or protected veteran status. OSU is a VEVRAA Federal Contractor and desires priority referrals of protected veterans for its openings.  OSU-Stillwater is a tobacco-free campus.    Oklahoma State University - Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Stillwater Tulsa Oklahoma City Center for Health Sciences Division of Agriculture Institute of Technology Veterinary Medicine