Agriquest | Certification Home Seeds Agri Inputs Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal Husbandary Organic Farming Info Agri Jobs Blog Contact Agriquest Language Seeds Seed Evolution and Seed Devlopment Seed Dormancy and Seed Germination Quality seed and its importance in agriculture Seed Technology -Defination, Objective and its role Causes for varietal deterioration, Maintenance of genetic purity and principles of seed production Generation system of seed production Methods for hybrid seed produciton Maintanence of parental lines Seed Certification Seed Production of different crops Seed Act and Seed Rules Seed processing Seed Storage Seed testing Seed marketing Seed deterioration and enhancements Synthetic seeds Sponsored Link Seed Certification SEED CERTIFICATION Seed certification It is a legally sanctioned system for quality control and seed multiplication and production. It involves field inspection, pre and post control tests and seed quality tests. Objective of seed certification To maintain and make available to the farmers, high quality seeds and propagating materials of notified kind and varieties. The seeds are so grown as to ensure genetic identity and genetic purity. Eligibility for certification of crop varieties Seed of only those varieties which are notified under section 5 of the seeds Act, 1966 shall be eligible for certification. Breeder seed is exempted from certification. Foundation and certified class seeds come under certification. Breeder seed is produced by the plant breeder and seed technologist which is inspected by a monitoring team consisting of the breeder, representative of seed certification agency (Deputy Director of Agriculture), representative of State Dept of Agriculture, representative of National Seed Corporation (NSC, Deputy Manger), representative of State Seed Corporation and nominee of crop co-ordinator. The crops shall be inspected at appropriate stage. Concept of Seed Certification Concept of seed certification was originated in Sweden during twentieth century by visiting agronomist and plant breeder to the progressive farmers, who took seeds from them, primarily with the objective of educating them on how to avoid contamination. This initiated field inspection process. Seed Certification Agency Principles for forming seed citification agency: 1. It should not involve in seed production and marketing 2. It should have autonomy 3. Seed certification procedure adopted should be uniform throughout the country 4. It should closely associated with technical institutes 5. It should operate on a no profit and no loss basis 6. It should have adequate technical staff and facilities for timely inpection of seed fields 7. It should serve the interests of seed producers and buyers PHASES OF SEED CERTIFICATION 1. Verification of seed source 2. Receipt and scrutiny of application/Farm-1 3. Field inspection 4. Supervision of post harvesting and Seed Processing upgrading operations and sampling 5. Seed Quality analysis and genetic purity evaluation 6. Seed Treatment 7. Bagging and Tagging 8. Grant of Certificate 9 Issue of release order (Farm-II) I. VERFICATION OF SEED SOURCE Seed has to be verified for by seed certification agency before distribution of seeds. During his first inspection of seed farm the Seed Certification officer will verify whether the seed used to raise the seed crop is from an approved source. II. RECEIPT AND SCRUTINY OF APPLICATION a. Application for registration Any person, who wants to produce certified seed shall register his name with the concerned Assistant Director of seed certification by remitting prescribed fee per crop, per season. There are 3 seasons under certification viz., kharif (June - September), rabi (October - January) and summer (February - May). b. Sowing report (Application for the registration of seed farm) The seed producer who wants to produce certified seeds shall apply to the Assistant Director of Seed Certification in the prescribed sowing report form in quadruplicate with prescribed certification fees along with other documents such as tags to establish the seed source. Separate sowing reports are required for different crop varieties, different classes, different stages and if the seed farm fields are separated by more than 50 meters. Separate sowing reports are also required if sowing or planting dates differ by more than 7 days and if the seed farm area exceeds 25 acres. The sowing report shall reach concerned Assistant Director of Agriculture Seed Certification within 35 days from the date of sowing or 15 days before flowering whichever is earlier. In the case of transplanted crops the sowing report shall be sent 15 days before flowering. The producer shall clearly indicate on the reverse of sowing report, the exact location of the seed farm in a rough sketch with direction, distances marked from a permanent mark like mile stone, building bridge, road, name of the farm if any, crops grown on all four sides of the seed farm etc., to facilitate easy identification of the seed farm by the seed certification officer. The Assistant Director, Seed Certification on receipt of the sowing report, scrutinises and register the seed farm by giving a Seed Certification number for each sowing report. Then he will send one copy of the sowing report to the Seed Certification officer, on to the Deputy Director of Seed Certification and the third to the producer after retaining the fourth copy. III. FIELD INSPECTION OBJECTIVE The objective in conducting field inspection is to verify the factors which can cause irreversible damage to the genetic purity or seed health. INSPECTION AUTHROITY The seed certification officer authorized by the registering authority shall attend to field inspections. CROP STAGES FOR INSPECTION The number of field inspections and the stages of crop growth at which the field inspections should be conducted vary from crop to crop. It depends upon duration and nature of pollination of the seed crop. If the crop is grown for hybrid seed production, the number of field inspections during the flowering stage should be more than one in the case of self-pollinated / cross / often cross pollinated varieties. In hybrid seed production and variety seed production of cross pollinated crops the inspection during flowering should be made without any prior notice of the seed grower to judge the quality of operation undertaken by him to maintain the genetic purity of the crop. But in the case of self-pollinated crop the seed grower may be informed about the date of inspection. In the former case if prior notice is given to the seed grower, it may not be possible to detect the damage by the contaminants whereas in the latter case prior notice will lead to improvement of the quality of the seed production work and thus the quality of seed. The key points to be observed at each stage of inspection Stage of crop Key points to be observed at inspection   Stage of crop Key points to be observed at inspection I. Pre flowering stage (Vegetative Stage) a. Verification of seed source b. Confirmation of acreage given in the report. c. Proceeding crop requirement d. Planting ratio e. Border rows f. Isolation distance g. Guide the grower in identification of offtypes, pollen shedder, diseased plants, shedding tassels etc., II. Flowering Stages (May be II and III inspections when 50% of plants begin to flower). a. Confirm the observation of plants inspection were correct. b. Confirm whether grower had continued thorough rouging, after the previous inspection. c. Verify the removal and occurrence of offtypes, pollen shedders, shedding tassels, objectionable weed plants and diseased plants. III. Inspection during post flowering and pre-harvesting stage. a. Confirm the correctness of observations, made in earlier inspections. b. Guide the grower on rouging, based on pods, earhead, seed and chaff characters such as colour, shape and size. c. Explain to the grower when and how to harvest the crop and process. IV. Inspection during harvest (This is the last inspection conducted on a seed crop). a. Verify that male parent rows have been harvested separately. b. Ensure complete removal of offtypes, other crops, weeds and diseased plants etc., c. Seal properly by the certification agency of the threshed produce after initial cleaning and drying. d. Instruct the seed growers for sage storage and transportation.   Field counts The purpose of field inspection is to find out field standards of various factors in the seed farm. It is impossible to examine all the plants in the seed farm. Hence, to assess the field standards of various random counting is followed. Points to be observed before counting 1. All plants falling in each count must be examined for each factor 2. In hybrid seed field the prescribed number of the field counts should be taken in each parent separately. Number of counts to be taken The number of counts taken and the method employed in taking counts vary from crop to crop. It is necessary to take minimum of 5 counts upto 5 acres and an additional count for every 5 acres or part of as given below. Area of the field (in acres)   Area of field (in acres) Number of counts to be taken Up to 5 5 6-10 6 11-15 7 16-20 8 21-25 9   Double count In any inspection. if the first set of counts shows that the seed crop does not confirm to the prescribed standard for any factor, a second set of counts should be taken for the factor. However, when the first set of counts shows a factor more than twice the maximum permitted, it is not necessary to take a second count. On completion of double count assess the average for the two counts. It should not exceed the minimum permissible limit. Number of plants for a count   Sl No. Crop Number of plant/head per count Remarks 1. Soybean, Jute, Lucerne, Mesta, Breseem 1000 plants Closely planted crops 2. Beans, Cluster beans, Cowpea, Green gram, Black gram, Peas, Mustard, Sesame, Bengal gram, Safflower, Niger 500 plants Medium Spaced Crops 3. Bhendi, Brinjal, Chilli, Castor, Cole crops, Cotton, Cucurbits, Groundnut, Maize, Poato, Redgram, Tomato and Sunflower 100 plants Wide spaced crops 4.