Tamil Nadu Ministries and Dapartments Home » Tamil Nadu » Tamil Nadu Ministries & Departments   Tamil Nadu तमिलनाडु का नक्शा Tamil Nadu Map Cities in Tamilnadu Chennai Coimbatore Ooty Tiruchchirapalli Madurai Salem Thanjavur Kanyakumari Vellore Districts of Tamilnadu Roads Tamilnadu Railways Rivers of Tamilnadu Tehsils of Tamilnadu Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map Tamilnadu Facts History of Tamilnadu Festivals in Tamilnadu Government and Politics Travel to Tamilnadu Travel to Chennai Travel to Coimbatore Travel to Ooty Travel to Kanyakumari Travel to Tiruchirappalli Places to visit in Tamilnadu Beaches in Tamilnadu Wildlife Sanctuaries Temples in Tamilnadu Victory War Memorial Ooty Botanical Garden Ooty Lake Temples in Kanyakumari Shore Temple Government Museum in Chennai Vivekananda House Hotels in Tamil Nadu Chennai Hotels Ooty Hotels Salem Hotels Kodaikanal Hotels Coimbatore Hotels Madurai Hotels             more... Tamil Nadu Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Tamil Nadu Pincode Tamil Nadu Std Code Art and Crafts Tamil Nadu Economy Tamil Nadu Ministries How to Reach Local Government Music and Dance Road Transport Tamil Nadu People Tamil Nadu Thematic Map Factsheet Universities In Tamil Nadu       Ministries & Departments of Tamil Nadu The Tamil Nadu Government is efficiently run under the Chief Minister, Governor and the different ministers of the state. The capital of the state is Chennai. It is one of the southern most state of India. The total area of Tamil Nadu is 130,058 square kilometers and it has a population of 55 million. The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu is Dr. Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi. He is one of the founder members of DMK and had been selected a President of DMK 1969 onwards. He represented the State Assembly for a number of times in his political career. Karunanidhi has been the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu from 1969 to 71, 1971 to 76, 1989 to 91 and 1996 to 2001. The Governor of Tamil Nadu is Mr Surjit Singh Barnala. He was elected the MLA and remained in the Barnala Assembly Constituency till 1999. Later, he became the Education Minister of Punjab. In the later years, he was selected as an MP during the tenure of Morarji Desai. He became the Chief Minister of Punjab in 1985. In 2004, he was again selected the Governor of Tamil Nadu for a second time. Some of ministries and their departments are mentioned here: Ministries and Departements The Tamil Nadu ministries are alloted under the supervision of the council of ministers. There are different ministries under which lie the different departments. The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Dr. M. Karunanidhi is himself responsible for the development of the Public Ministry, General Administration, Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Other All India Services, Prevention of Corruption, District Revenue Officers, Home, Police, Industries, Information Technology, Prohibition and Excise, Molasses, Minorities Welfare, Tamil Official Language & Tamil Culture and the Passports and Special Initiatives departments. The Finance Minister of the state, Prof. K. Anbazhagan is responsible for the departments of Finance, Planning, Legislative Assembly and Elections. The Ministry of Electricity has the Electricity, Non-Conventional Energy Development and Personnel and Administrative Reforms departments allotted under it. The Tamil Nadu Government has the Ministry for Rural Development and Local Administration under which lie the various departments of Municipal Administration, Rural Development, Panchayats and Panchayat Unions, Poverty Alleviation Programs, Rural Indebtedness and Urban and Rural Water Supply. Another chief ministry of the Tamil Nadu state is the Ministry of Agriculture. Under this ministry lie the various departments of Agricultural Engineering, Agro Service Cooperatives, Horticulture, Sugarcane Cess, Sugarcane Development and Waste Land Development. Thiru Durai Murugan, is the Minister for Public Works and Law. He supervises the departments of Irrigation including Minor Irrigation, Program Works and Law and Courts The Ministry of Rural Industries include the small and cottage industries departments as well. Governer At present, the Tamil Nadu Governor is Konijeti Rosaiah. Konijeti Rosaiah also served in various positions including the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. Prior to becoming the Governor of Tamil Nadu, Shri Rosaiah was an MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly), MLC (Member of Legislative Council), and MP (Member of Parliament), representing the Indian National Congress. Chief Minister Present tenure of Tamil Nadu's Chief Minister The tenure of Tamil Nadu's present Chief Minister is of 3 months. Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa was elected as the Chief Minister on 16th May, 2011. This is the fourth tenure of Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu though. Which political group does Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa belong to? Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa belongs to a Dravidian party named AIADMK (All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam). What are the other names of Selvi J. Jayalalithaa? Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa was commonly referred as "Amma", which means "Mother"and is called as "Puratchi Thalaivi" by her fellow members and supporters. "Puratchi Thalaivi" in English means "Revolutionary Leader". She is even regarded as the "Iron Lady of India". Where and when was Selvi J. Jayalalithaa born? Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa was born on 24th February, 1948 in Mysore in the state of Karnataka. Educational qualification of Dr. Selvi J. Jayalalithaa Besides holding a Matriculation Degree, Selvi J. Jayalalithaa was honoured by D.Ltt. (Degree of Doctor of Literature). Last Updated on 5/2/2013             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule