Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Adjunct Faculty Adjunct Faculty APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FOR ADJUNCT FACULTY POSITIONS Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology is seeking applications from eminent scientists /teachers for term appointment as Adjunct Faculty Members of IICPT in the areas Food Processing disciplines such as, Food Science and Technology, Food Engineering, Post Harvest Technology, Food Microbiology, Storage Entomology, and Food Technology. The "adjunct faculty? titles; Adjunct Assistant Professor, Adjunct Associate Professor, and Adjunct Professor shall be used for term academic appointments for individuals who will conduct research and/or teach courses at IICPT depending on need and interest. The title of Adjunct Professor, Adjunct Associate Professor, or Adjunct Assistant Professor may be given to an individual if the individual meets departmental qualifications for a regular faculty appointment and/or the individual actively contributes to the strengthening and advancement of the academic mission of IICPT. An adjunct faculty member may serve as co-adviser for Master/ Ph.D. students, but may not as a sole adviser. Adjunct faculty may submit sponsored research and program proposals as principal investigators. PROCEDURE FOR APPOINTMENT OF ADJUNCT FACULTY An individual can apply for the position of the Adjunct Faculty against the advertisement on the website of IICPT. Adjunct Faculty appointment can be made in a specific area of teaching at the institute level. A Committee of HODs of IICPT will identify specific teaching needs and responsibilities of the appointee. The Committee of HODs will identify suitable candidates, obtain their CVs and make recommendations. For appointment to an area or department, the recommendation from the concerned HOD shall be included as an input for the evaluation process. The recommendations of the Committee will be placed before the Institute Management Committee (IMC) for approval. Director shall consider the recommendations of above mentioned committee as an input for deciding the appointment. Any financial supports will be extended for only those periods during which the Adjunct Faculty is directly engaged by IICPT for teaching and research purposes. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS Following are the terms on which IICPT can invite faculty members of good academic repute as Adjunct Faculty members of IICPT: During their tenure at IICPT, their duties and privileges will be the same as that of permanent teaching Faculty. Appointment shall be made up to a maximum tenure of two years at a stretch. Generally there will be no restriction on the number of occasions for such appointments provided that the total period of such appointments does not exceed 5 years. The Adjunct Faculty members will be paid a consolidated monthly remuneration. The quantum of monthly remuneration payable will depend upon whether incumbent draws or does not draw Financial Assistance from any other source during his tenure at the Institute. Accommodation: As applicable to the type of house provided to the whole time Faculty of IICPT. Water and Electricity charges will have to be paid on actual basis. Medical Facilities: All medical facilities available for IICPT regular Faculty will be provided to the Adjunct Faculty members and his dependant family members. There will be no reimbursement in case of hospitalization. Vacation: Adjunct Faculty members (if appointed for a year or more) will be entitled to avail Vacation/ Earned/ Casual Leave as admissible to regular Faculty member of IICPT except that such leave(s) shall lapse at the end of the year and no carry forward/ encashment etc for the same will be admissible. Further there will be no entitlement for any LTC. Telephone and Internet: Telephone and Internet facility including reimbursement of telephone expenses will be at par with the regular faculty of the Institute. Professional Development Fund: In case a Adjunct Faculty members spends six months or more at IICPT, he/ she will be provided suitable Professional Development Fund as decided with the approval of Director, irrespective of age for academic purposes. Research Grant: Adjunct Faculty members will be entitled to Research grant as decided with the approval of Director No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com