Home Main Menu Home About SMOI COA Members Authorised User Consumer Silk Mark Expo Calendar of Events Publications Online Purchase Silk Mark in Media Gallery News & Events OTHER ITEMS Downloads Links RTI FAQ Search for Authorised User Blog Vanya Now Trending Vision Statement Tenders Contact Us Enquiry Fusion label authentication You are here: Home Expression of Interest - Designing and Supply of Silk Mark Label | Print |  Email   Natural Silk – Queen of Textiles Natural Silk is the Nature's bounty to the humankind unfolded in its finest and sensuous form. The enchanting sheen, amazing drape, enamoring feel and the affinity to radiating resplendence are its most distinct characteristics. The trance of Natural Silk has made our ancestors make it as a part of all religious rituals. The effort to invent manufacturing of Natural Silk artificially has led to invention of host of fibers like Nylon and Rayon. The effort for an exact duplication of Natural silk is still on, but the Natural Silk remains as the Queen of Textiles in all its Glory.   Silk Mark – A Quality Assurance label The scientific work for invention of cheap imitation of Natural silk may be in progress, but in the market place there are numerous other textile materials sold in the name of silk i.e. Art silk, Artificial silk and other glamorous names. Please watch out, Silk Mark is here to help you to identify Silk - the Pure Silk! The Consumer of Silk has long been having a difficulty of identifying the pure silk from the host of other fibers, just like the Consumer of Gold in finding the purity of Gold. The Consumers and the genuine traders of silk had been demanding a measure from Central Silk Board in bringing in a fair practice in the Trade. Silk Mark was launched on 17th June 2004 as a response to the demand. Silk Mark is being promoted by Silk Mark Organisation of India (SMOI), a registered society under Karnataka Society Act 1960. SMOI is an initiative of Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles and Government of India. The Silk Mark Labels are in the form of Paper Hang tag and sew-in label. These are affixed only on pure silk products by the Authorised Users of Silk Mark. Each label has a hologram and an unique number printed on it which helps the consumers to trace the product to its Authorised User. Further a new labelling system has been developed - Fusion Label which gets fused on to the fabric. This fusion label is tamper proof and is an important initiative by Silk Mark to protect the silk consumers. The label has hidden security features in order to ensure that it is not duplicated. Hang tag Sew in label Fusion label All labels printed after 6th February 2015 will bear year of printing on the Silk Mark label   Objectives of Silk Mark Protect the interests of the consumer. Protect the interest of genuine traders and manufacturers of Silk Generic Promotion of Natural Silk   Different types of Natural Silk There are only four types of natural silk commercially exploited out of over five hundred different types of Silk spinning worms and they are Mulberry, Tasar, Eri & Muga. The later three varieties are collectively branded as ‘Vanya’ Silk literally meaning forest and a term to denote wild silks. India is the only country producing all the four types of natural silk. Advertisement Now Trending.... Silk Mark Gallery Copyright © 2012 Silk Mark Organisation Of India. All rights reserved. Powered by Netiapps Visitors - . Home l Downloads l  Blog l Advertisements l Links l Contact Us | Chapter Login | AU Login Follow Us