Jharkhand Home » Jharkhand   Jharkhand झारखंड का नक्शा Jharkhand Map Capital of Jharkhand Jharkhand Cities Jamshedpur Ranchi Bokaro Dhanbad Districts Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Reach by Train About Jharkhand Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Travel to Jharkhand Places to visit in Jharkhand Wildlife Sanctuaries Daasam Falls Sun Temple Population Sex Ratio Map Fact sheet education Universities In Jharkhand Politics Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Lok Sabha Constituencies Business and Economy Ministers and MPs Government Agricultural Map Geography and History Mineral Map District Map in Hindi Hotels in Jharkhand Bokaro Hotels Deoghar Hotels Dhanbad Hotels Jamshedpur Hotels Kumardhubi Hotels Ranchi Hotels Language Jharkhand by Road Ranchi Airport Map Information Media People,Culture and Festivals Pin code STD code       Jharkhand Jharkhand Location Map Jharkhand Map Jharkhand Travel Map About Jharkhand is 'the land of forests' - endowed with rich flora and fauna. To have a complete panoramic view of nature and beauty, one can visit the zoological gardens and national parks. The state is situated in the eastern part of India. In the year 2000, it was split from southern Bihar and was formed into another state. Jharkhand is encircled by the Indian states of West Bengal (east), Uttar Pradesh (west), Chhattisgarh (west), Bihar (north) and Odisha (south).The state is spread out across 30,778 sq metres. Ranchi is the state's prime capital, whereas the largest city for industrial purposes is Jamshedpur. The sub-capital of the state is Dumka. The other prime cities of the state are Hazaribagh, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Facts on Jharkhand Official Website www.jharkhand.gov.in Date of Formation Nov 15, 2000 Area 79,714 sq km Density 414/Km2 Population (2011) 32,988,134 Males Population (2011) 16,930,315 Females Population (2011) 16,057,819 No. of District 24 Capital Ranchi Rivers Damodar, Subarnarekha Forests & National Park Betla ( Palamau), NP, Hazaribagh WS Languages Mundari , Kurukh, Khortha, Nagpuria, Sadri, Khariya, Panchparagnia, Ho, Malto, Karmali, Bangla, Hindi, Urdu, Santhali Neighbours State Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Orissa, Chhattisgarh State Animal Elephant State Bird Asian Koel State Tree Sal State Flower Palash Net State Domestic Product (2011) 29786 Literacy Rate (2011) 75.60% Females per 1000 males 947 Assembly constituency 81 Parliamentary constituency 14 History The roots of Jharkhand can be traced to Magadha Empire. During the Mughal period, this area was called Kukara. The British came over to rule after 1765 and this land was named as Jharkhand. Tilka Manjhi from Santhal tribal was the leader in revolting against the British rule in 1771. Immediately after that, in 1779, Bhumij tribe fought against the Bristish for the current state of West Bengal. Much after that, unrest was seen in Chero tribe at Palamau. The tribal revolts in 1832 created a major impact on the British administration based in Jharkhand. One of the longest and last tribal revolts under 'Birsa Munda' broke out in 1895 and went on till 1900. Geography The state is situated on Santhal Parganas and Chhota Nagpur Plateau. Most of Jharkhand comes under the Chhota Nagpur Plateau. Rivers like Koel, Brahmani, Damodar, Subarnarekha and Kharkai flow here. One can enjoy the scenic beauty of forests, hills and plateaus from the Lodh Falls. The dense forest of the state has a huge population of Asian elephants and tigers. Jharkhand's soil content consists of stones and rocks disintegration. The soil compositions are divided further and are found around the state. One can find red soil in the Rajmahal area and Damodar valley. Some areas of Barkagaon, Jhumri Telaiya, Koderma, and Mandar hill have micacious soil that contains mica particles. Dhanbad and Hazaribagh have sandy soil and the major part of Rajmahal area has black soil. Palamu, Dumka, western Ranchi, and Singhbhum and Santhal Parganas regions have laterite soil. Government and Politics Chief Minister is the head of the government of Jharkhand and the Governor is the state's de jure head. Many national and state level political parties participate during the Jharkand elections. The most active national parties in Jharkhand elections are the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Indian National Congress (INC) and Communist Party of India (CPI). As far as the state-level parties are concerned, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is one of the major political parties. Several regional registered parties take immense interest in Jharkhand politics, but they don't have major political impact yet. Education As per the 2011 census, the state's literacy rate is 67.63 percent. The male literacy of the state is 78.45 percent and the female literacy is 56.21 percent. Moreover, nine districts of the state have the above average literacy rate. The state has both privately run as well as state-run schools. The mode of teaching depends and varies from one school to another. Some of the well-known schools in Jharkhand are De Nobili School, DAV Hehal, Delhi Public School, Oxford Public School, St Thomas School, Chinmaya Public School, St. Xavier's, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Shishu Mandir, Sacred Heart School, Loyola school, Surendranath centenary School, etc. After Jharkhand was formed, four different projects - DPEP, SSA, NPEGEL and KGBV - were introduced by the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) in order to spread awareness of primary-level education. However, because of slow pace of work, the government has not yet achieved 100 percent enrolment of students in schools. More Detail... Economy Jharkhand is India's second largest mineral wealth producer followed by Chhattisgarh. Minerals such as iron ore, copper, coal, uranium, bauxite, mica, limestone and graphite are found in the state. Because of its rich mineral resources, the state expects its per capita income to increase in the years to come. The state comprises of all the well known industrialised cities Bokaro Steel City, Ranchi, Ramgarh and Dhanbad. Sindri (Dhanbad) had the largest fertiliser industry, which has now shut down. Jamshedpur has the first ever iron and steel factory. Bokaro is also Asia's biggest steel plant. Gomia has the largest explosives at Bokaro. It was also indicated that NTPC will commence the production of coal, which will bring in an investment of around Rs 1,800 crore. More Detail... Demographics The current population of the state as per the Census 2011 is 32.96 million (males: 16.93 million; females: 16.03 million). The state comprises 24 districts and 32,620 villages. Merely 8,484 villages have connectivity. Out of this number, 28 percent of the people consist of tribes and 12 percent of the population is from scheduled caste. Urbanisation and industrialisation has affected these regions adversely. Around 68.5 percent people follow Hinduism, 13.8 percent follow Islam, 13 percent people follow Animisitic Sarna, and 4.1 percent follow Christianity. The remaining population follows Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. The state has many tribal communities like Asur, Binjhia, Gond, Ho, Kharia, Kharwar, Banjara, Bathundi, Mal Paharia, Chik Baraik, Korba, Birhor, Mahli, Khond, Sauriya Paharia, Kisan, Korwa, Mal Paharia, Munda, Oraon, Santhal, Sauria Paharia, Savar, Sabar, Parahiya, Birajia, Hill Kharia, etc. Culture Because this state is mainly dominated by tribes, nature is considered as a vital and important part of their culture and lives. People buy the sacred trees and plant them in the courtyard as a part of their tradition. A couple of rituals followed by the people are Jitia Puja, Karma Puja, Sarhul, etc. During Makar Sankranti, people celebrate Tusu Fair or Poush Mela, which is actually a festival of harvesting. This is more of a folk belief and is a very colourful and bright celebration. The entire Chotanagpur Plateau Region celebrates the Karam Festival with pomp and show. After the Kunwaar-Shukl-Paksh, it is celebrated for 15 days. In order to prepare for the festival, the people buy new clothes, sindoor, oil, daliya, and prepare dishes. The boys and girls are treated with utmost importance by their respective families and are given Karam clothes, which indicate that they are unmarried. Language Hindi is the prime language of the state. The people here also speak various other languages. The three important language groups are Munda, Indo-Aryan and Dravidian. They are sister languages and most words used are 80 percent-90 percent same. Languages like Santhali, Bhumij, Ho, Mundari and Kharia come under Munda, languages like Bengali, Sadri, Maithili, Panchpargania, Oriya, Khortha, Nagpuri and Kurmali come under Indo-Aryan; and languages like Paharia (Malto), Korwa and Oraon (Kurukh) come under Dravidian. People predominantly speak Santali in Jamtara, Godda, Sahibganj, Dumka, Pakur, Saraikela-Kharsawan districts, and east of Singhbhum. Mundari is spoken in parts of Ranchi, Khunti, West Singhbhum, Latehar districts, Simdega, Gumla, etc. People speak Ho in Saraikela-Kharswan districts and West Singhbhum. More Detail... Transport Jharkhand has a dense train route. Most districts are well connected via railway. Apart from that, Jharkhand has an airport in Ranchi, called the Birsa Munda Airport. The Airports Authority of India manages this domestic airport. It is exactly situated in Hinoo region, which is around seven kilometres from the city. Moreover, the road transport in the urban cities is well developed. These buses come at a frequency of five to ten minutes at the national highway. One can travel from the tribal areas and villages to the prime districts by bus. Also, the state's Transport Department generates maximum revenue for the state. Urban Development Department provides the bus service under permits by Transport Department's Regional Offices in Dhanbad, Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Tourism The tourism industry contributes a major share to the economy of the state. The state is full of forests and hills apart from the wildlife sanctuaries, holy shrines, museums etc. which attract tourists from all over the country. It also attracts business tourism due to the presence of the many global and Indian organisations here. The places to see in the state are: Ranchi Hills Daasam Falls Sun Temple Jamshedpur Baidyanath Dham Netarhat GP WBST190914 WBTS250914 Last Updated on : December 19, 2014 Travel to Jharkhand Travel to Ranchi Travel to Hazaribagh Places to visit in Jharkhand Places to visit in Ranchi             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule