BAE Graduate Courses | Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering University Home About OSU Academics Faculty and Staff Student Life Future Students Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS University Links [ + ] Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Growing Oklahoma Search... Division Home Calendar Campus Map OSU Quicklinks Local Weather Menu           Division Home People Faculty (All) Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Resources CEAT Giving Page DASNR Giving Page CASNR Alumni Page OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation Hire OSU Grads BAE Newsletters OSU Job Search Employment Opportunities Student Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Degree Options Degree Sheets and Flowcharts Recruitment and Application Process Scholarships and Financial Aid Senior Design Projects Study Abroad Student Projects Student Links Graduate Student Welcome Graduate Programs Biomechanical Systems Bioprocessing and Biotechnology Environment and Natural Resrouces Food Processing BAE Graduate School Application Process Assistantships BAE Graduate Courses BAE Research Labs Graduate Student Links Accreditation Research BAE Research Labs Advanced Technology Research Center BioEnergy BioEnvironmental BioTechnology BioPhysical Properties Bioprocessing Lab Environmental Preperation FAPC Ground Water Machine Testing Machine Vision Research Shop Sensors Lab SPREC Welding and Engines class Wind Tunnel BAE Research Shop Bio Products and Energy Hydraulic Engineering OK-FIRE EPSCoR Extension Extension News Agriculture Machinery Systems AgWeather Applications Engineers BAE Fact Sheet Biobased Products and Energy Center OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Stored Products Research and Education Center (SPREC) Stormwater and Low Impact Development SUNUP Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Program News and Events News Events BAE Newsletters Publications and Outreach Impact Statements – April 2014 Archive Links Professional organizations American Society of Agriculturaland Biological Engineers North American Benthological Society American Society of Civil Engineers Energy Management Institute American Meteorological Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Collegiate organizations Alpha Epsilon ASABE student club ASABE Facebook page Cowboy Motorsports BAE Sites AGMACH$ Agricultural Machinery Systems Agweather BAE Extension fact sheets BAE Labs OSU Biobased Products and Energy Center Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit OK EPSCoR BREOI Oklahoma Mesonet OK-FIRE Plans and Building Information Services Poultry Waste Management Stormwater and Low Impact Development Sun Grant Initiative – South Central Region Waste Management Engineering Water Quality Programs DASNR Sites DASNR OCES county office directory Robert M. KerrFood & Agricultural Products Center SUNUP CEAT OSU Sites OSU Home Hire OSU Grads News OSU Athletics Stillwater Resrouces Oklahoma Resources Oklahoma Departmentof Agriculture, Food, and Forestry Oklahoma Bioenergy Center Oklahoma Departmentof Environmental Quality Federal Resources Agriculture Research Service ARSGrazinglands Research Laboratory ARS, Conservationand Production Laboratory USDA U.S. Departmentof Energy – Bioenergy U.S. National Science Foundation U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency, Region 6 Other Resources Worldwide Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Directory The Environmental Working Group Microsoft Research Maps (formerly Microsoft Terra Server – satellite photos) Ground Water Protection Council, GWPC Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, CAST Contact Us BAE Links BAE Home About BAE Archive People Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Resources Research Extension News and Events Links and Resources Alumni Resources Contact Us BAE Graduate Courses The Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering is administered jointly by the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources and the College of Engineering, Architecture and Technology . Biosystems engineering courses integrate engineering sciences, physical sciences, and biological sciences and teach students to address real-world challenges. With the guidance of experienced faculty, students work both as individuals and in teams to design creative solutions to complex problems. The program culminates in a senior year design course in which students integrate the analysis, synthesis and other abilities they have developed throughout the earlier portions of their study into a capstone experience. BAE 4213 – Precision Agriculture. Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1513, senior standing. Introduction to the concepts of precision agriculture including analysis of spatial variability, relationships of fertility and crop response, geographical information systems, variable rate technology, optical sensing, global positioning systems, and yield monitoring. Case studies included for detailed analyses. (Same course as SOIL 4213) BAE 4224* Machinery for Production and Processing. Prerequisite(s): 3213. Analysis and design of machine components and machine systems for production and processing of biological materials. Soil dynamics with emphasis on traction and soil compaction. Interactions of machines with biological systems. BAE 4283* Bioprocess Engineering. Prerequisite(s): 3113 or consent of instructor, ENSC 3233. Application of fundamental engineering principles to biochemical and biological processes. Introduction to cellular processes, fermentation technology, biological mass transfer and kinetics, bioreactor design and scale-up and downstream processing. (Same course as CHE 4283) BAE 4313* Hydrology. Prerequisite(s): 3313, ENSC 3233. Basic principles of surface and groundwater hydrology and their application in engineering problems. The hydrologic cycle, weather and hydrology, precipitation, evaporation, transpiration, subsurface waters, stream flow hydrographs, hydrologic and hydraulic stream routing, probability of hydrologic events and application of hydrologic models. BAE 4353* Mechanical Design II. Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2013, ENSC 2122, MAE 3323. Design of power transmission systems, including belts, chains and gears. Selection of electric motors, actuators, encoders, and related electromechanical components. Selection and application of hydraulic and pneumatic components in machine design applications. Design practice in the form of short projects integrating the various segments covered in the course. (Same course as MAE 4353) BAE 4413* Food Engineering. Prerequisite(s): 3013 and ENSC 3233, 2213. Analysis and design of various unit operations in food processing including thermal processing, drying, evaporation, freezing, processing non-Newtonian fluids and quality changes during processing. BAE 5000* Thesis and Research. 1-6 credits, max 6. Prerequisite(s): Consent of major professor. BAE 5030* Engineering Practice. 1-12 credits, max 12. Prerequisite(s): BS degree in biosystems and agricultural engineering. The identification, analysis and synthesis of an authentic problem in agricultural and biological engineering. Solution of the problem will involve making engineering decisions tempered by real-time restraints, economic realities, and limited data with due consideration for environmental and social implications. BAE 5213* Renewable Energy Engineering. Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2213, ENSC 3233 or consent of instructor. Renewable technologies such as solar, wind, geothermal, hydroelectric, and biomass to generate energy for electricity, heating, transportation, and other uses. BAE 5243* Biological Conversion for Advanced Biofuels. Prerequisite(s): ENSC 2213. Fundamental principles and applications of converting biomass to advanced biofuels. Focus will be on biological processes, fermentor design and operation, product recovery and emerging fuels. BAE 5283* Advanced Bioprocess Engineering. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor. Application of fundamental engineering principles to biochemical and biological processes. Introduction to cellular processes, fermentation technology, biological mass transfer and kinetics, bioreactor design and scale-up and downstream processing. (Same course as CHE 5283) BAE 5313* Watershed Modeling and Water Quality. Lab 6. Prerequisite(s): 4313 or equivalent. A computer modeling course with an emphasis on chemical and physical processes governing nonpoint source pollution (nitrogen, phosphorus, sediment) at the basin scale. The laboratory use of state-of-the-art models applied to a variety of agricultural systems. “Hands on” use of comprehensive hydrologic water quality models that utilize spatial data in a geographic information system. Models and parameter uncertainty, digital data sources, parameter estimation and model testing, calibration and validation. For students with advanced personal computer skills. BAE 5324* Modeling and Design in Storm Water and Sediment Control. Lab 3. Prerequisite(s): 4313 or equivalent. Analysis and design of storm water, sediment and water quality systems with a focus on application to urban areas and developments in the urban-rural fringe. Advanced concepts in hydrologic modeling with kinematics, diffusion and dynamic modeling of flow; soil erosion, sediment transport and sediment control; storm water quality modeling and the impact of best management practices. In laboratories, use of hydrologic, sediment, and water quality models in analysis and design for real-world problems. BAE 5333* Applied Water Resources Statistics. Lab 3. Prerequisite(s): STAT 5013 or equivalent. Applied statistical methods for hydrologists, engineers, and environmental scientists for analysis of environmental data. Parametric and nonparametric methods and exploratory data analysis applied to observed environmental data sets. Laboratory exercises emphasize hands-on application of statistical problems to reinforce concepts. BAE 5343* Environmental Contaminant Transport. Prerequisite(s): 4313. Conceptual and mathematical models for the transport of contaminants in natural systems with an emphasis on agricultural pollutants. Basic transport processes relevant to the three environmental media – air, water, and soil. Common features underlying pollutant transport. BAE 5413* Instrumentation in Biological Process Control System. Prerequisite(s): 3023 or equivalent. Analysis of transducers for on-line measurement and control of biological processes. Emphasis on selection of measurement techniques and transducers to sense physical properties of biological materials. Application to agricultural and food processing industries. BAE 5423* Food Rheology. Lab 2. Prerequisite(s): ENSC 3233. Characterization and analysis of the rheological properties of food products. Focus on measurement techniques and equipment, including tube and rotational type instruments, with specific applications in food processing. BAE 5433* Biosensors. Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2114 and CHEM 3053 or equivalent. Principles and applications of biosensors in food analysis, disease diagnostics, and environmental monitoring. Emphasis on conceptual design and characterization of biosensors. Introduction to recent advances in biodetection using nanotechnology. BAE 5501* Seminar. Discussion of current literature with special emphasis on research and experimental techniques. BAE 6000* Research and Thesis. 1-10 credits, max 30. Prerequisite(s): approval by the student’s advisory committee. Independent research and doctoral thesis preparation under the cognizance of a graduate faculty member in the student’s field of specialization. BAE 6100* Teaching Practicum in Biosystems Engineering. 1-3 credits, max 3, Lab 2-6. Prerequisite(s): One semester of doctoral study in Biosystems Engineering, or consent of instructor. Philosophies and techniques of resident and non-resident teaching, including experiences in preparation, presentation, and evaluation of lectures, laboratories, extension or continuing education programs. BAE 6333* Fluvial Hydraulics. Prerequisite(s): 3013 or equivalent. Principles of sediment detachment and transport in fluvial systems. Design of stable channels and flow resistance relationships for sediment-laden flows. BAE 6343* Ground Water Contaminant Transport. Prerequisite(s): SOIL 5583 or CIVE 5913 or GEOL 5453. Principles of solute and multiphase transport in soils and ground water. Effects of advection, diffusion, dispersion, degradation, volatilization and adsorption. Relationships between laboratory and field scale transport. Contamination by nonaqueous phase liquids.