Commercial Library | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 995551 times on Saturday, May, 30, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Profile Commercial Library Commercial Library The Commercial Library is a unique information vending departmental library of this Directorate, to which access has been granted to the members of public free of charge with a view to catering to the commercial interests of the mercantile and trading community, desirous of having detailed information on international trade and related matters. The Commercial Library of DGCI&S was set up in the year 1914 in Kolkata. Later, in 1916, the Department of Commerce and Industry of the Government of India, by an order of the State opened the commercial library in a big way, unifying the departmental libraries of the Department of Commercial Intelligence, Department of Patents and Designs, and Department of Statistics, at its present premises i.e., 565,Anandapur, Ward No.108,Plot No. 22, Sector I, Kolkata 700107 The Commercial Library is the repository of books, periodicals, magazines, mimeographs, reports etc. of the Government of India and other countries and organizations all over the world. The reading room services introduced in 1916 are still continuing. The Commercial Library caters to the visiting students, academicians, prospectors, businessmen, traders and officials from other departments. The Library has the following categories of publications for public use. A. Books and other documents, B. Foreign Trade Statistical Publication (foreign countries), C. Statistical Yearbooks (both India & Foreign), In addition, it acquires foreign and Indian Journals and Bulletins either subscribed or received free of cost from the publishers. The Library has a stock of up-to-date Gazette Notifications of Govt. of India, accessible by the public for their use, as well. Publication of the UN, IMF, ESCAP as well as of various foreign Books and Govt. Department/Organisations are received regularly. The Library is open to all members of public on all working days. Persons below 18 years of age are not permitted. The Librarian/Officer In-charge is empowered to exercise his/her official discretion in providing access to documents and records of the Library to the users, in accordance with the extant Rules in vogue. The Commercial Library provides free reading room facilities. The readers are however, required to collect a Readership Card. The Library Membership and Reading Room Rules were introduced way back in 1916 and has been amended from time to time. A copy of the Rules is placed below. Rules for use of reference library(With effect from March, 2002) The Commercial Library of the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Kolkata is open to the public on all working days from 10-30 a.m. to 5-30 p.m. and will remain closed on holidays observed by the Offices of the Government of India located at Kolkata and occasionally for brief periods, notified in advance, from time to time, for administrative reasons. A list of the holidays will be displayed on the Notice Board. Admission to the Library will be allowed from 10.30AM to 1.30PM and 2.00PM to 5.00PM on all working days. Admission to the Commercial Library is free to all persons subject to provisions mentioned below in Clause 4. The Entry into the Library is regulated in accordance with the procedure as follows: Any individual, other than the Officials of the DGCI&S, may use the reference library subject to the issuance of temporary permission by the Librarian/Officer in-Charge, for a maximum period of one month at a time. The necessary forms etc. are available in the library, free of cost. A person who wishes to use the reference library should first submit an application in the prescribed form (annexed) duly counter-signed by the Principal/Vice-Principal/Head of the Department for Students/ Research Scholars and for Others, application should be signed by Class I Gazetted Officer of the Central/State Government with Office seal. A person who submits the application for temporary permission to use the reference library, duly completed in all respect will be issued a temporary Card valid for a specific period, subject to the maximum period of one month, at a time. On expiry of validity of temporary permission, if a person wishes to continue to use the library for useful purpose, an extension of permission for further period could be granted only in special case. Library authorities reserve the right of withdrawing the permission at any time for improper use of library. Visitors, duly permitted to use reference library are required to sign the Visitor’s Register. Visitors are requested to observe silence in the Library. Smoking is strictly prohibited in the Library. Visitors are requested to deposit at the reception counter any books, journals etc., mobile/cellular phone, umbrella, stick, hat or raincoat and any kind of bags brought by them. Mobile/cellular phone should be switched off. Visitors should receive from the reception counter numbered token for the articles they deposit. Visitors shall not take their own books into the library reading room without the special permission of the Librarian. No visitors shall remove books from the shelves of the Reading Room. Books are obtainable only upon requisition. Readers should fill up requisition forms kept on the table and the Issue Assistant will arrange for the supply of the books applied for. Readers shall return all books to the Issue Assistant before leaving the Library. In exchange they shall receive back their requisition slips duly cancelled. Readers are requested to consult books or journals at the appropriate tables. Separate tables have been provided for books and for journals. No one shall remove from the Reading Room any book belonging to the Library. Tracing is forbidden except when special permission has been obtained for the purpose. Persons found mutilating the pages of books or periodicals or otherwise damaging them shall have to make good the loss and they shall be debarred from the use of the library in future Readers found violating any of these rules, or misbehaving in any way, or disturbing other readers by conversation or otherwise, shall not be allowed to remain in the library reading room. A suggestion book is kept in the library, recommendations for new purchases may be recorded therein. Lending of books is usually not permitted to any person other than the dgci&s officials. Special permission for lending of books has to be obtained from the director general, dgci&s, kolkata, according to extant rules regarding lending of books. Click here for Application Form for issue of Readership Card {Size: 14 kb} Top Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107