Year of Horticulture 2012 | Horticulture JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content / navigation A A A Choose Theme English Directorate of Horticulture and Plantation Crops Agriculture Department, GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU Feedback Sitemap FAQs Home About Us Horticulture Department TANHODA TANHOPE Vision & Mission Locator Profile State Profile District Profile Policy Policy Note Performance Budget Citizen's Charter Announcements Government Orders Schemes State Schemes Farms Part II Shared Schemes GOI EAP Contact Us Administrative Setup Commissioner's Desk Roll of Honour Agro Climatic Zones Horticulture Map Parks and Gardens Organic Farming Marketing Press Clippings Cyclone Thane RTI Accolades Do it yourself kit Application Forms Monthly Newsletter November 2012 - EnHAaNS Magazine The Coffee Table Book : November, 2012 Media Gallery View More Important Links RKVY NMPB NHM AGMARK Agristat TNAU Agrisnet TANFLORA NABARD APEDA Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) NHB Season and Crop Report Ooty Flower Show TANHODA DEMIC HORTNET Home Year of Horticulture 2012 Year of Horticulture 2012 The Ministry of Agriculture has decided to mark 2012 as the Year of Horticulture to acknowledge the salience and centrality of horticulture in the agricultural development of the country. In accordance, The Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Tamil Nadu celebrates the Year of Horticulture 2012 and the following achievements have been made during the year with wholesome efforts and success: 1. UZHAVAR PERUVIZHA: Uzhavar Peruvizha, an Intensive Village Level Campaign was held from 13th april 2012 to 17th May 2012 at 16,564 revenue villages of 385 blocks in 31 districts of the State except Chennai as per the announcement made by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on 10.04.2012 in the assembly. Uzhavar Peruvizha paves way to attain food security and increased crop productivity by bringing the advanced technologies directly to the farmers by conducting awareness campaigns through mobile extension centres. Field demonstrations, exhibitions, interactions with the scientists and other agencies during the campaign have also found a great success. Street plays, Dramas, folk songs and folk dance are the part of the campaign by which Uzhavar Peruvizha was celebrated as a group festival reaching farmers directly at their place. Sumptuous meal was provided to the farmers who participated in the campaign. Farmer’s integrated hand book was issued to the farmers for their technical support. Hybrid vegetable seeds, quality planting material and other inputs were distributed to the farmers under various schemes. 2. EXCLUSIVE HORTICULTURE PORTAL: To expand the horizons of extension machinery in disseminating the activities, technologies etc of this Department to the superficies, an exclusive Horticulture Portal has been developed at a cost of Rs.11.00 lakhs through NIC, Chennai. This will enable the Department to administer and converge all its e-Governance activities in one forum www.tnhorticulture.tn.gov.in. The portal is a single stop-shop for all the needs of the Department functionaries and the general public. It contains huge amount of information on Horticulture with links to important scientific institutions in Tamil Nadu, within India and abroad. 3. MONTHLY MAGAZINE - "EnHAaNS": EnHAaNS – ENHANCING AMBIENCE and NUTRITIONAL SECURITY through HORTICULTURE, is the monthly magazine published by the Department initiated during the year of Horticulture 2012, to project the various schemes of the Government in Horticulture. This magazine will educate the farmers and also make them more sensitive and forward looking. This icon in the history of Horticulture will also helps to meet the objectives of the Department ie., to cover market led production, adoption of high technologies like use of high yielding /hybrid seeds, shade net nurseries, micro irrigation, protected cultivation, high density planting, canopy management etc which aims to attain increased production and productivity of Horticultural crops. 4. COFFEE TABLE BOOK: The Coffee Table Book is the assemblage of weighty deeds of the Department which gives the reader a flavor of the activities of the Department over the years, thus show – casing the hard work and diligence put in by the dedicated officers and staff of the Horticulture Department in the service of our Farmers. The Department feels proud to publish the book during this Year of Horticulture – 2012 which marks its birth in the history of Horticulture. 5. PARTICIPATION IN FAIRS/SHOWS: The Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops has participated in various events and shows and fetch various awards/prizes in the Year of Horticulture as follows: S.No Date Event/Show and Venue Prize description 1 13.01.2012 to 18.03.2012 38th International Trade Fair, Island Grounds, Chennai “Best Pavilion for Interaction with Public” - Third prize 2 26.01.2012 63rd Republic Day Parade, Chennai “Decorated Float exhibiting Government Schemes” -Third prize 3 03-02-2012 to 05-02-2012 Flora Expo-2012, Okhla, New Delhi Obtained “Excellent Display Award” 4 27-07-2012 to 29-07-2012 High Tech Agriculture and Horti Expo-2012, Pragati Maidan, New Delhi “Most Beautifully decorated stall” - First prize 5 21-09-2012 to 25-09-2012 2nd International Horti Expo, Police Maidan, Kannur, Kerela “Best Pavilion, Public Sector” - First Prize. 6. LAUNCH OF ECO PARKS: The Department has made the following projects in the various regions of the State to attract more visitors and to increase the aesthetic value of the place during the Year of Horticulture. a. Eco-park at Courtallam in Tirunelveli District. b. Improvement works at Anna Park, Bryant Park and Chettiyar park at Kodaikanal in Dindigul District. c. Government Botanical Garden at Yercaud in Salem District. d. Genetic Heritage Garden at Yercaud in Salem District. The following events are proposed to be held during the Year of Horticulture: 7. NATIONAL BANANA SEMINAR: National level Banana seminar is proposed to be held at Theni, “horti-culturally the banana District of the State” on 3rd and 4th November. Highlighting the significance of banana cultivation in Theni ie., obtaining yield of 80 MT/ha which is the maximum yield recorded, this seminar will disseminate the wealth of Theni district in Banana cultivation and its production to the other banana growing zones of India. This seminar will also envisages the post harvest management, value addition and supply chain management of Banana. Brainstorming sessions and exhibitions to show case the particularity of Banana District will be held during the seminar. 8. INTERNATIONAL HORTI FEST 2013: The first International Horti Fest 2013, as a festival to celebrate the end of the “Year of Horticulture” is proposed to be held at Chennai Trade Centre, Nandambakkam during 8th - 10th January. It is aimed to provide an integrated platform, encompassing the entire gamut of horticulture in India. The new farm concepts, innovations, buyer-seller meets, product showcasing etc. could foster the chosen field of interest in horticulture and render support for expanding horti – bussiness globally to the entrepreneurs. Visitor Counter: 842394 Since: 15th October 2012 Accessibility Options Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Accessibility Statement Sitemap Hyperlinking Policy FAQs Feedback Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Copyright © Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. All rights reserved. "Designed by National Informatics Centre, Chennai" Last Updated May 04,2015