Course Overviews | National Academy Foundation mynaf login | community | e-news sign up | donate | contact | search ACADEMY SUPPORT HUB | QUALITY CENTER | WORK-BASED LEARNING CENTER About NAF NAF Academies For Teachers & Administrators For Students & Alumni For Business Partners Donate/Get Involved News & Events Experts Curricula Course Overviews The DelPrince Family Our History / Board / Staff / Strategic Relationships / Work at NAF / Contact NAF Statistics & Research / Our Themes / Regions / Why Choose NAF? / Starting an Academy / Year of Planning / Find a Local Academy NAF Curriculum / Professional Development / Resources / Assessments & Certification / Quality Center / Work-Based Learning Center Alumni Week 2014 / Student & Alumni Stories / College Resources / Scholarships Resources / Work-Based Learning Center / NAFTrack Donate Now / Volunteer Opportunities / Corporate and Foundation Supporters / Benefit / Other Ways to Give / Contact Us NAF In The News / Publications & E-News / Press Releases / Press Kit / Videos Course Overviews Search Search: Theme: <Any> Finance Hospitality & Tourism Engineering Information Technology Health Sciences Applied Finance (formerly known as Advanced Finance) Theme: Finance Applied Finance delves into the financial concepts introduced in Principles of Finance. Students learn to identify the legal forms of business organization and continue to develop an understanding of profit. They learn about various financial analysis strategies and the methods by which businesses raise capital. Students also have the chance to explore, in depth, topics of high interest in the field of finance, and explore the types of careers that exist in finance today. > Biotechnology Theme: Health Sciences Biotechnology is a lab course designed to introduce students to the scope of biotech research and product development across many fields. Students learn proper lab techniques and recordkeeping with a scientific notebook. They learn the methods of gel electrophoresis and restriction enzyme digestion. Students explore the ethical issues in applied biotech, as well as the rights and responsibilities of the stakeholders involved in the development, production, and use of biotechnology products. > Business Economics Theme: Finance Business Economics introduces students to the key concepts of economics as they pertain to business. This course discusses the American economy and the factors that influence the success of businesses and products. It describes forms of business ownership, discusses the relationship of labor and business, and provides a broad overview of the global economy. Students also examine careers in business, both as employees and as business owners. > Business in a Global Economy Theme: Finance Business in a Global Economy provides students with an understanding of how and why businesses choose to expand their operations into other countries. This course exposes students to the unique challenges facing firms doing business internationally, and to the potential opportunities available to those businesses. > Computer Networking Theme: Information Technology Computer Networking is a hands-on introduction to peer-to-peer and client/server networks. The course guides students through all phases of implementing and troubleshooting common TCP/IP Ethernet networks. It covers network components, cables, and connectors, as well as the OSI model, protocols, and topologies. Students implement and troubleshoot a LAN and learn about access issues for WANs. Finally, students explore opportunities for network-related careers. > Computer Systems Theme: Information Technology Computer Systems walks students through the intricacies of setting up hardware, installing software, connecting to a network, and connecting to the Internet. Students get hands-on practice upgrading operating systems. They get practice assembling and disassembling computer hardware including peripherals, motherboards, FRUs, and connectors. Students also learn troubleshooting techniques. Finally, students get a chance to explore careers for computer systems professionals. > Customer Service Theme: Hospitality & Tourism This course introduces students to the concept of service as a critical component of a hospitality or tourism business. Students analyze both good and poor customer service in a variety of contexts and through various methods. Students explore communication skills and strategies, and they use a problem-solving perspective to understand barriers to communication and good service. They learn various means of measuring the quality of service and explore careers that focus on customer service. > Database Design Theme: Information Technology Database Design covers all aspects of the database life cycle, from collecting user requirements to delivering a database application. Students get hands-on practice in a true-to-life database project as they move from a statement of requirements to a conceptual model, then to an entity-relationship model. They translate this into a relational database. Finally, they create, test, and document the associated database application. Students also examine career opportunities as database professionals. > Digital Video Production Theme: Information Technology Digital Video Production provides a hands-on introduction to digital video production. It guides students through all phases of digital video production, from planning, executing, and managing a video shoot to editing footage. Students explore methods of sharing and broadcasting digital videos, including platform versions, CDs/DVDs, and web delivery. They also learn about publicizing a digital video, using techniques such as search engines to direct viewers to the production. > Entrepreneurship Theme: Finance Entrepreneurship introduces students to the critical role entrepreneurs play in the national and global economy. Students learn the skills, attitudes, characteristics, and techniques necessary to become successful entrepreneurs. They explore starting a business and learn about the operational issues and financial risks that new businesses face. Students examine ethical issues and develop a framework for managing them. > 1 2 3 next › last » Copyright © 2012 National Academy Foundation. All Rights Reserved. Contact Us Site map Privacy Donate