Farm of Happiness - Agro tourism farm - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Farm of Happiness – Agro tourism farm Home Farm of Happiness – Agro tourism farm Urban India interacts with rural India through fun filled activities and learns about growing food Disturbed with the rat race in the urban life, vagueness in the so called “upward mobility” to be the only goal in lives and careers, advertising professional Mr. Rahul Kulkarni and his actress wife Ms. Sampada Kulkarni decided to move closer to the nature. Determined to live a more meaningful, contented and peaceful life, they laid the foundation for “Farm of Happiness” at their ancestral property in village Phungus, Konkan, Maharashtra. Sharing as to how his little journey in agriculture started, Mr. Rahul says, “Mr. Shekhar Bhadsavale (The Father of Saguna Baug, Neral) made us understand the importance of owning the land and growing food. We realized that we had to become farmers first and then spread awareness on the importance of growing food with the world through the medium of agri-tourism.” Mr. Rahul and Ms. Sampada always believed happiness is experienced when life is simple and less complicated and so they invested all their earnings in setting up the agro-tourism farm without any hassle. In addition they felt, “Besides the monetary aspect there is lot of peace and aesthetics when you choose to live in the laps of nature.” The self-driven couple started from scratch to turn the grass-covered land with no water source into a comfortable living space for guests in 2005. The total property spreads in 20 acres but presently approximately 8-9 acres have the perennial crops cultivation like mangoes and cashews with some seasonal crops like vegetables, turmeric, chillies, rice, ragi, etc. “A house for the home-stay with the front and back yards occupying about 8 gunthas along with a cattle and wood stock shed. The entire land is used to serve guests as the farm trail includes meeting the wild flora & fauna, trekking and cycling around,” he informs. Farm of Happiness can host maximum 15 guests in three bedrooms and a huge living room. “It is a house designed in a very traditional form and layout. It was inaugurated in January 2014.” Soon by March 15, 2015, three more rooms with a dormitory for additional 20 persons will be ready to serve more guests. Clearing the doubt on the year of establishment, Mr. Rahul says, “I started on this venture in 2005, streamlining things one after the other. The rooms were ready and we had about 10-12 rounds of pilot guests since a year before January 2014. This was in light of understanding how things are going to be, what would be the expectations of guests and training local staff on every little detail possible. Finally we launched our website in January 2014 and welcomed our first commercial guest in February 2014.” People in urban India know everything about mobiles but do not have even the slightest idea of how food comes to their plate, and this thought prompted Mr. Rahul to design all the agri tourism related activities to entertain the guests around the theme ‘growing food’. He shares, “We show guests how different crops grow, their life cycle, why crops are produced in particular season and why they should be eaten in specific seasons only. We give a walk through as to how nature has created different living creatures and its relation to one another. Our guests are requested to join and participate in all farming activities from ploughing, weeding and harvesting etc.” Mr. Rahul proudly adds, “So far our guests have really been interested in these activities and have admitted to have learnt a lot with such fun filled practical.” Nature lovers, new-age tourists inclined to experience off beat places and themes, farming enthusiasts and families (NRI and Indian) keen to introduce their kids to rural India and to the life that they have missed are the target customers. Recently, the first set of foreign visitors too have enjoyed their stay and farming experience at Farm of Happiness. Mostly guests travel to the farm in their own cars with the help of maps and route details as provided to them. “Some come by train or buses to the nearest station and we arrange for paid pickups in auto rickshaws or jeeps of the locals and that’s getting them some business too,” he says. Farm website and its Facebook page are used for reaching to the target audience. Marketing and creating awareness about the farm are not the challenges as, “Thanks to my advertising career! On our social media we regularly reach to Indian travelers as well as families and youngsters in US, Europe and Middle East to attract foreign tourists,” says Mr. Rahul. When told agri-tourism is picking up fast and so is the competition, Mr. Rahul promptly replies, “No competition bothers me. I am happy if more people want to do it as that means many are getting into farming.” Permanent staffs (locals and also farmers in their own farms)of 10 people manage the entire operation under the supervision of Mr. Rahul himself. Citing future plans he says, “Make more and more guests aware of the food growing industry. Conduct farming workshops for kids and adults, build a pool of local farmers wanting to get into organic farming, grow some indigenous crops in bulk and market them.” He concludes saying, “I owe this all to the immense belief and support of my family. It has not been easy for them and I could do it only through my family’s endeavor. It is not a single person’s task.” Contact details- Farm of Happiness Near Katal Wadi, P.O. Phungus, Tal. Sangameshwar, Dist. Ratnagiri 415611 Mobile – +91 98200 02863 Email – info@farmofhappiness.com Website – http://www.farmofhappiness.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Farm of Happiness – Agro tourism farm Related – articles, consultants, downloads Yadrave-Magdum Agro Farm Satavic Farms – consultants for organic farm Godson Organic Farm Friends Farm – Sustainable farming You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water