Terms of Use: Department of Financial Services, Department of Financial Services, Government of India Skip to Main Content | Skip to Navigation Text Size A A A A A A A Hindi Home Functions New Initiatives Financial Inclusion Documents & Publications RTI Who's Who Contact Us Dept. of Financial Services Ministry of Finance, Government of India Finance Minister Minister for State Allocation of Business Citizen's Charter Acts & Rules Work Allocation Banking Insurance Pension Reforms Notifications Circulars Appointments Press Releases Data & Statistics Vacancy Circulars Tenders/Auctions The National Portal of India National E-Governance Plan Public Grievances Invest India Tenders You are here : Home Terms of Use Terms of Use This website is designed, developed and maintained by National Informatics Centre and content provided by Department of Financial Services, Government of India. Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. Incase of any ambiguity or doubts, users are advised to verify / check with the Department(s) and / or other source(s), and to obtain appropriate professional advice. Under no circumstances will this Department be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. The information posted on this website could include hypertext links or pointers to information created and maintained by non-Government / private organisations. Department of Financial Services is providing these links and pointers solely for your information and convenience. When you select a link to an outside website, you are leaving the Department of Financial Services website and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners / sponsors of the outside website. Department of Financial Services does not guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. Department of Financial Services cannot authorise the use of copyrighted materials contained in linked websites. Users are advised to request such authorisation from the owner of the linked website. Department of Financial Services does not guarantee that linked websites comply with Indian Government Web Guidelines. Home Sitemap Accessibility Options Terms of Use Policies Disclaimer Accessibilty Statement EBook Feedback Site is designed and hosted by National Informatics Centre Contents on this website is published and managed by The Department of Financial Services, Govt. of India.