Buy Collagen Powder from Nizona Corporation, Japan kobe Japan | ID - 789937 List Your Company - Free | SignIn | Trade Offers | Products | India Directory Nizona Corporation, Japan Member Since : 2014 | Country : Japan Home Products Send Inquiry Contact us Beauty Products,health Care Products,food Supplement,beverages Home » Product » Collagen Powder Collagen Powder We are offering collagen powder. Collagen is protein in our body which is the main component of connective tissue. It makes up approximately 30% of the body's protein which can be found in the skin, bones, cartilages and tendons. When we start to age, our collagen production slows down which affects the skin's hydration, suppleness and elasticity. Beyond the skin, our connective tissues also start to deteriorate and weaken which leads to various ailments. Collagen is a vital component in keeping ourselves healthy and young. our collagen: collagen is revolutionary product that not only supplements the collagen need of our body, but also helps our body to produce it naturally. The product uses hydrolyzed collagen which is also known as "super collagen" because this is the form of collagen that our body can best absorb. This is so because of the process of hydrolyzation which reduces the molecular size of the collagen which increases the intestinal absorption of the product. It has been clinically tested in japan that the use of hydrolyzed collagen improves skin suppleness, hydration and elasticity which allows its users to look younger and be healthier. benefits health & beauty supplement that can be easily mixed with any food or drink as part of any diet or meal. Natural skincare & anti-aging. Support of health of joints for men and women regardless of their active or passive lifestyle. Odorless, tasteless and completely natural, processed 100% in japan with no additives or preservatives b collagen : collagen powder beauty powder : health supplements Additional Information : Payment Terms : T/T Minimum Order Quantity : 500 Pack(s) Packaging Details : 100 grams packs, 500 grams pack, 10kgs bag Delivery Time : 5-6 weeks SEND INQUIRY Search Contact Details Ms. Sora Shun Telephone : +81-5055324689 Mobile Phone : +81-8042499744 » More detail Product Range » Alert Natural Drink » Anti Wrinkle Cream » Collagen Beauty Drink » Collagen Facial Mask » Collagen Health Supplements » Collagen Jelly Sticks » Collagen Noni Cream » Collagen Powder » Collagen Skin Whitening Tablets » Collagen Soap » Collagen Tsubaki Drink » Energy Bomber Drink » Glucosamine Natural Drinks » Health Drink » Japan Ramune Drink » Skin Whitening Gel Cream (anti-aging Gel) Yes No Related Catalogs Perfect Herbals & Oils ginger oil, nagarmotha oil, celery seed oil, cumin seed oil, ajowan oil, citral ex lemon grass oil, rectified clove leaf oil, iso eugenol, eugenol,... Rekhi Exports henna hair dye, black henna hair dye, burgundy henna hair dye, dark brown henna hair dye, light brown henna hair dye, natural hair colors,... Gupta Enterprises hand weft hair, non remy single drawn hair, natural remy hair, weft hair, nail hair, flat tipped hair, prepped hair, ladies hairs, curly hair,... Safeshield India Rubber Products Pvt. Ltd. latex examination gloves, surgical gloves, gynaecological gloves, household gloves Suggested Companies Ask Trading Co. Primereal Bioscience Pvt. Ltd. Breej Technologies Guangzhou Ealajane Silicone Tech Co., Lt Pacific Edible Oil Company Molik Group Oil Factory Ltd Lammtara Related category Match Soft Drinks Anti Wrinkle Cream Health Drinks Beauty Care Products Energy Drink Natural Drinks Food Supplement Anti Aging Products Health Supplements collagen powder WeblinkIndia.Net - Web Design Company Copyright © 2015. Weblink.In Pvt. Ltd. (ISO 9001:2008 Certified) All Rights Reserved. - www.ExportersIndia.com