Computer Trade Show,Information Technology Exhibition,IT Trade Fair,Event JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Enable JavaScript for full functionality of this site. To know how to enable JavaScript in your web browser click here . Yes No Welcome User! Sign In Join Free Call Us : 1800-123-4520 Trade Shows Trade Shows Organizer Search Add Trade Show Home About Us Contact Us Feedback Testimonials Sitemap Companies Products Buy Leads Trade Shows ▼ By Country By Date By Industry By Organizer Email Address Password Sign In   Password Help? Computers And Internet Trade Shows Trade Shows Trade Show By Industry Computers And InternetTrade Shows Date : 02 Jun - 05 Jun 2015 BroadcastAsia2015 Exhibition -  Singapore Broadcastasia2015 Is Asia’S Truly International Exhibition That Is Recognised As The Networking, Knowledge And Sourcing Platform For The Pro-Audio, Film And Tv Industries. Professionals From Around The Region Will Congregate To Network,.... Venue : Marina Bay Sands ,Singapore Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 05 Jun 2015 CommunicAsia-Singapore -  Singapore CommunicAsia-Singapore 2015 is the international communications & information technology exhibition & conference.communicasia has a thirty-one year record of serving asia's telecommunications and ict industries. Venue : Marina Bay Sands ,Bayfront Ave Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 02 Jun - 05 Jun 2015 Enterprise IT -  Singapore Entering into its 7th edition, Enterprise IT(ENIT 2010) is recognized as a pivotal information technology exhibition & conference for the enterprise. It will be held along with CommunicAsia & Interactive DME and will prove to be a.... Venue : Marina Bay Sands ,Singapore Singapore Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 17 Nov - 20 Nov 2015 Milipol Paris 2015 -  France Milipol Paris, the well-established international exhibition for Internal State security, provides the ideal place for suppliers of security products and services to meet relevant decision-makers and advisors from around the.... Venue : Paris Nord Villepinte Exhibition Centre ,Villepinte France Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 28 Sep - 03 Oct 2015 Infotech, Pc World – Bulgaria 2015 -  Bulgaria Infotech, Pc World – Bulgaria 2015 is the exhibition event where companies from the most rapidly developing it sector show their best achievements and products. Venue : International Fair Plovdiv ,Plovdiv Bulgaria Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 Infosecurity - Netherlands -  Netherlands Infosecurity - Netherlands 2015 is one of the leading it security show, which is the storage expo exhibition offer market leaders, associations, speakers and other it professionals to their ideas, technologies, services and vision to the latest.... Venue : Jaarbeurs Utrecht Netherlands Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 10 Dec - 13 Dec 2015 Zak Doors & Windows Expo - Mumbai -  India Zak Doors & Windows Expo-Mumbai 2015 is india’s largest platform for the fenestration industry. every year at the expo, thousands of visitors and exhibitors share and exchange ideas, materials and solutions pertaining to doors, windows,.... Venue : MMRDA Exhibition Center ,Mumbai ,Maharashtra India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Atlantic Design Manufacturing Show -  United States Atlantic Design & Manufacturing continues to be a vital and one of the largest design and manufacturing trade show serving the Northeastern United States. Find the resources you need to increase productivity, improve quality, reduce costs, and.... Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,NY United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Jun - 11 Jun 2015 Automation Technology Expo East -  United States Exhibiton on the latest advances in automation including adhesives/dispensing equipment, assembly systems, custom automation, control software/hardware, materials handling, motion control, robotics, sensors, vision inspection systems. Venue : Jacob K. Javits Convention Center ,New York United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 ATX South -  United States Your gateway to the Southeast's advanced manufacturing marketplace, ATX South features leading suppliers of custom automation/assembly systems, robotics, vision inspection systems, control software and hardware, sensors, motion control,.... Venue : Orange County Convention Center ,Orlando United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Nov - 19 Nov 2015 Plastec South -  United States Exhibition on The latest advances for every industry specialty and every application in primary processing machinery, computer-aided design and manufacturing, production machinery, materials, molds and mold components, automation technology,.... Venue : Orange County Convention Center ,Orlando United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 04 Nov - 05 Nov 2015 Design & Manufacturing Midwest -  United States Design & Manufacturing Midwest keep you abreast of the latest advances in your industry but it also presents your best opportunity of the year to explore supplier alliances, technology licensing, partnerships, and joint ventures. Venue : Minneapolis Convention Center ,Minneapolis United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Oct - 11 Oct 2015 India International Security Expo -  India India's largest show case of goods and services related to Homeland Security, Fire Safety, Traffic Management, Industrial Safety and Public Safety, Hospitalty and Reality Security. Venue : Pragati Maidan ,Delhi India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 Jun - 16 Jun 2015 Dream Hack Summer 2015 -  Sweden DreamHack is the world's largest LAN-party and computer based Exhibition. DreamHack is focused on everything you can do with computers: a lot of gaming and communication. Programming, designing, music composing and whatever.... Venue : Elmia exhibition halls Sweden Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 09 Sep - 11 Sep 2015 WorldDidac India -  India WorldDidac India 2015 is the country’s largest and only event for educational supplies, training, technology and didactic material where education & training professionals from all parts of the globe can see, evaluate and purchase a.... Venue : Bangalore International Exhibition Centre ,Bangalore ,Karnataka India Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 20 Aug - 25 Aug 2015 Signs & Media World Expo -  Philippines SIGNS & MEDIA WORLD EXPO 2015 is the 6th International Signage & Displays, Out of Home Media, Multimedia & Presentation Technology, Equipment, Materials and Services Exhibition. Venue : SMX Convention Center ,Manila Philippines Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 07 Oct - 09 Oct 2015 Design Engineering & Manufacturing Solutions Expo 2015 -  Japan (DMS)   Design Engineering & Manufacturing Solutions Expo 2015 is largest it solutions expo for manufacturing industry. designers and development engineers from the manufacturing industry visit dms to.... Venue : Intex Osaka ,Osaka Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 18 Feb - 20 Feb 2016 Malaysia International Technology Expo 2016 -  Malaysia Entering its 15th year in 2016, MTE will once again bring recognition to many of the best ideas and inventions in the region at the Invention & Innovation Awards 2016 and the Malaysia International Design Expo & Awards (mIDEAS) 2016 to be held in.... Venue : Putra World Trade Centre (PWTC) ,Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 12 May - 15 May 2015 Sviaz-Expocomm 2015 -  Russian Federation International Exhibition of Telecommunications, Navigation Equipment, Control Systems and Information Technologies. “Sviaz Expocomm” in the largest International Exhibition and Conference in Russia and Eastern Europe for.... Venue : EXPOCENTRE ,Moscow Russian Federation Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 13 May - 15 May 2015 DSE-Data Storage Expo-Japan -  Japan DSE is Japan's largest exhibition featuring essential data storage solutions to manage and protect enormous volume of information. A great number of information/network systems managers and specialists in positions such as researchers and.... Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 25 Apr - 26 Apr 2015 Fan Expo Regina -  Canada Fan Expo Regina will be another great Pop Culture event this Spring. Highlighting celebrities, shopping, panels and workshops, this will be the place to be to find the newest and hottest in Anime, Manga, Comics, Sci-Fi, Gaming and Horror. Venue : Canada Centre East at Evraz Place ,S4P 2Z6 Canada Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Apr - 10 Apr 2015 FOE-Fiber Optics Expo -  Japan FOE - Fiber Optics Expo 2015 is the largest exhibition in Asia specialized in fiber optical communication. The show will be continuing for the duration of three days in Tokyo, Japan. It will develop network opportunities and the advancement and.... Venue : Tokyo International Exhibition Center (Tokyo Big Sight) ,Tokyo Japan Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 24 Feb - 28 Feb 2015 Didacta -  Germany The conference "Professional E-Learning" has a permanent place in the program didacta. Erstmals wird sie 2009 auf drei Tage ausgedehnt und gibt so die Möglichkeit, Kompetenzerwerb, E-Learning und seine Anwendungen umfänglicher darzustellen. The.... Venue : Bildungsgipfel im Flachland ,Lower Saxony Germany Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 08 Feb - 11 Feb 2015 NDSS Symposium -  United States The NDSS Symposium-2015 is a three day conference brings together innovative and forward thinking members of the Internet community including leading-edge security researchers and implementers, globally-recognized security-technology experts, and.... Venue : San Diego Convention Centre ,CA United States Book Your Stall General Inquiry Get Sponsorship Visitor Registration Date : 21 Jan - 24 Jan 2015 Bett Show -  United Kingdom Futures is the new, purpose built home for the world's most inspiring ed-tech start-ups, right in with the action on the show floor. This area has been introduced to celebrate brave thinking, new products and education 'game.... Venue :