New Page 1   Organic farming for quality produce and conserving fragile eco-system   Home History Organisation Citizen Charter Developmental activities Photo Gallery High Value Agriculture                                                  History            Land, Soil and climate   Organisation   Developmental activities   High Value Agriculture   Krishi Vigyan Kendra   Citizen Charter   Photo Gallery   Application forms   Mail us                   High Value Agriculture           Lakshadweep being Coconut territory coconut productivity plays an important role in improving economic status of the islands. Now productivity level has almost reached to the saturation level. No uncultivable land is available for converting into cropping area. Increase in population is mounting pressure on resources available in the territory. In order to meet the requirement of growing population for a comfortable life, income generated from Copra alone will not suffice the increasing demand. The only way out is to go for high value agriculture through product diversification and value addition.  PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION AND VALUE ADDITION PROPOSED ARE AS UNDER:         The coconut  tree is a very useful plant.  Each part of the tree is useful.  On an average 1000 nuts  yield one quintal copra, 60kg of coir fibre and 1000 coconut shells and it is possible to add value to the crop through its various products namely: i) Vinegar – a permanent natural preservative ingredients for pickles,  salads, soups, curry etc. ii)  Jaggery - a colloidal sugary substance made out of coconut neera (toddy) used for making a varieties of  snacks, a best substitute for jams, for making cool drinks etc. iii)  Desiccated coconut powder – Powder made out of fresh coconut by mechanical processing.  Processes involved are – removing of shells without breaking  kernel, outer skin is peeled, cleaned and crushed in the  desiccator machine.  After desiccation, the powder is dried in the drier machine maintaining 40-60ºC for 30-45 minutes, packed and marketed; used mainly for confectionery items, many other varietal dishes, curries etc. iv) Snowball tender coconut – 8-9 months old tender coconut is dehusked and shells removed using a machine without touching  the kernel content, kernel ball is fixed in an ice cream bowl and served with a straw fixed in the eye of the kernel ball.  Water can be consumed using straw and kernel eaten later. v) Ball copra   - It is conversion of raw coconut into copra without breaking it into two pieces, nuts allowed to dry till shell is separated from the kernel and dried, ball copra is comparatively clean, fetches good value in the market, long shelf life, north Indians’ prefer especially for religious functions. vi) Coconut milk – Coconut cream is the processed milk extracted from fresh matured coconuts.  It is an instant product which can be either used directly or  diluted with water to make various preparations such as curries, sweets, desserts, puddings etc.  It can also be used in the manufacture of bakery products and for flavouring food stuffs.  Processed and packed coconut cream has a shelf life of six months. vii) Coconut fibre products – curled coir fibre, coir rope, yarn, coir mats and mattings, pressed board, fibre brush etc. viii) Extraction of coconut oil ix) Converting waste coconut pith into usable manure, brickets x)  Coconut based handicrafts : Other than DCP and coconut fibre products, the other products mentioned above are not being produced in an organized manner in Lakshadweep.     Home History Land, Soil & Climate Organisation Developmental activities High Value Agriculture   Krishi Vigyan Kendra Citizen Charter Photo Gallery Application forms Mail us   Designed and Maintained by: Department of Agriculture, U.T.of Lakshadweep Resolution 800 x 600 for  better display    