Madhya Pradesh Physical Map Home » Maps » Madhya Pradesh » Madhya Pradesh Physical Map   Madhya Pradesh मध्य प्रदेश का नक्शा Madhya Pradesh Map Cities in Madhya Pradesh Indore Bhopal Jabalpur Gwalior Ujjain Sagar Neemuch Morena                    more... Districts of Madhya Pradesh Roads Railways Rivers Tehsils Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Location Lat Long Map Outline Map Travel to Madhya Pradesh Places to visit in Madhya Pradesh Wildlife Sanctuaries Bandhavgarh National Park Kanha National Park Crescent Water Park Sex Ratio Map Mineral Map Agriculture Map Madhya Pradesh Forests Assembly Poll Parliamentary Constituencies Education Universities In Madhya Pradesh Fairs and Festivals Economy Industries Quick Facts Population Languages Chief Minister History Geography Weather Government Temples and Shrines Hotels in Madhya Pradesh Indore Hotels Bhopal Hotels Pachmarhi Hotels Gwalior Hotels Jabalpur Hotels Mandu Hotels Khajuraho Hotels              more... Museums and Galleries People and Culture Arts and Crafts Handicrafts Factsheet District Map in Hindi Newsletter Pin Code       Madhya Pradesh Physical Map Madhya Pradesh Physical Map Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Save   Buy Now   * Madhya Pradesh Physical map showing plateaus, planes, hills, mountains, etc. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. About Madhya Pradesh The state of Madhya Pradesh , which is situated in the central position of the state, is popularly known as the "Heart of India" and the "Central Province". Bordered by the state of Uttar Pradesh towards its north east, Rajasthan towards its north west, Gujarat towards its west, Maharashtra towards its south, Chhattisgarh towards its south east, the state covers a total area of 3, 08, 252 sq. km. As far as the area is concerned, this is the biggest state of the Republic of India. Madhya Pradesh Physical Map Similar to all the other physical maps of a given region, the physical map of Madhya Pradesh even assists one in gaining knowledge about the different topographical regions of the state. Color coded in different shades, each and every region varies from one another in terms of the elevation of a particular region from the level of the sea as well as the nature of the land in the respective regions. Each and every geographical variation is represented with different shades of color. The rivers and the other water bodies are being represented by the blue color though. Physical Features of Madhya Pradesh This central Indian state has got varied physical features, which is featured with mountain ranges, plateau regions, river valleys as well as plains. Two of the most famous mountain ranges in this state are Satpura range and Vindhya Range. Apart from that, a major portion of this state of India is covered by lush green forests and cultivated land. The different river basins form an important part of such a region of varied geographical features. Based on the climatic conditions, the total area of the state can be divided into the below mentioned topographies: The Chhattisgarh Plains The Hilly area of the Vindhyas range The Malwa Plateau The mountainous area of Bastar The Narmada River Valley The Northern Plains Among all of these above mentioned topographical regions of this Central Province, the Northern Plains experience an extreme type of climate. The distant location of these plains makes the places extremely hot during the summer season and extremely cold in the time of winter. As compared to those areas, the climatic conditions of the hills of the Vindhyas are bit better. Neither the region becomes unbearably hot during summers, nor excessively cold during winter. The well known health resorts of Panchmarhi and Amarkantak are located in this region. Similar to the Northern Plains, the Narmada River Valley is even featured with very warm weather in summers and cold weather in the winters. The region of the Malwa plateau has got a very moderate kind of temperature throughout the year. Thus, the area does not become too hot in the summers or too cold during the winters. The plain lands of Chhattisgarh becomes quite hot in the summer days, though does not become that much cold in the winter times. However, owing to the rainfall, the Bastar mountainous area has got a humid and cold type of climate. Rivers in Madhya Pradesh The state has got a number of famous rivers flowing through it. Thus, this place is the location of watersheds of many rivers as well as several river basins. Being located at the center of the country, the catchments of numerous rivers of the nation are located there. The Narmada River that is among the main river of the state meanders through the state from east to west. The other major river flowing in the westward direction within the state is the Tapti River. The river Narmada along with the river Tapti as well as their river basins divides Madhya Pradesh into the following 2 parts: The northern part: This part, largely, drains into the Ganga river basin. The southern part: The rivers of this region, mostly, drains into the river systems of the Godavari river and the Mahanadi river. To name a few of the other rivers flowing from the western part to the eastern side of this state of central India are as follows: The Betwa River The Chambal River The Indravati River The Mahanadi River The Sone River Last Updated on : 15 th March 2013   Buy this Map               About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule