Sikkim Map Home » Map » Sikkim Map   Sikkim History Geography Weather सिक्किम का नक्शा Sikkim Map Location Map Physical Map Lat Long Map Outline Map District Map Road Map Rivers Map Tehsil Map Sex Ratio Map Elevation Map Cities Gangtok Yuksom Geyzing Namchi Government Assembly Polls Parliamentary Constituencies Travel to Sikkim Places to visit in Sikkim Wildlife Sanctuaries Map Tsomgo Lake Nathula Pass Places to visit in Gangtok Hotels in Sikkim Gangtok Hotels How to reach Helicopter Service Flight Schedule Bus Schedule Railway Time Table Utilities Distance Chart Pin code STD code Education Universities In Sikkim       Sikkim Map Map of Sikkim Click here for Customized Maps Print Email Free Download   Buy Now   * Map of Sikkim with districts, railways, rivers and major road network. Disclaimer Close Disclaimer : All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Sikkim Location Map Sikkim District Map Cities of Sikkim Sikkim Tehsil Map         Sikkim Road Map Sikkim Physical Map Sikkim Rivers Map Sikkim Travel Map Sikkim is the second smallest state of India. This landlocked state is least populated and has Gangtok as its capital. The world's third highest peak, Kanchenjunga, is located here. The state has twenty-eight mountain peaks, twenty-one glaciers, 227 high altitude lakes, five hot springs, and over 100 rivers and streams, including the famous Teesta, which is also called "lifeline of Sikkim". Sikkim's economy is mainly agrarian. It produce crops of rice, cardamom, oranges, apples and tea. It is also a mineral rich state and have mines of copper, dolomite, limestone, graphite, mica, iron, and coal. The state also has a vast tourism potential. There are many hotels and guest houses to cater to the flourishing tourism industry. Apart from the major contribution from tourism, the service sector also boasts of its real estate. Sikkim State Information Capital Gangtok Date of formation 16. May. 1975 Governor Shriniwas Dadasaheb Patil Chief Minister Pawan Chamling Tourist attractions Tusklakhang, Namgyal, Deer Park, Orchid Sanctuary, Khabelstok Festivals Kanchendzonga, Lossong Major dance and music forms Khanchendzonga, Kali Topi Hat Arts and crafts Thangkas or religious scroll paintings depict scenes from Buddha's life; sand mandala; hand-knotted carpets. Languages Lepcha, Bhutia, Limbu, Nepali, Hindi Size 7,096 sq. km Population (Census 2011) 610,577 Rivers Teesta, Rangit Forests and wildlife sanctuaries Kanchendzonga NP, Fambong La WS State animal Red panda State bird Blood pheasant State flower Rhododendron State tree Nobile orchid Major crops Maize, paddy, wheat, barley Factoids The highly endangered red panda is found in Sikkim. Sikkim has around 200 monasteries or Gompas where red-robed lamas chant to drums, horns and trumpets. No. of District 4 Last Updated on : September 24, 2014   Sikkim Tour   Football Uniting Sikkim Ganesh Tok Temple Himalayan Zoological Park Khecheopalri Monastery Village Lal Bazaar Rumtek Monastery Sikkim Map Location Map Outline Map Physical Map Lat-Long Map District Map Travel Map Road Map City Map River Map Tehsil Map Wildlife Map Elevation Map Sex Ratio Map About Sikkim Geography Agriculture Weather Population History Sikkim Airports Education Medical Colleges Sikkim Helicopter Service Travel to Sikkim Travel to Gangtok Travel to Pelling Travel to Yuksom Places to visit in Sikkim Places to visit in Gangtok Tsomgo Lake Nathula Pass Rumtek Monastery Do-Drul Chorten Botanical Garden             About India Flag of India Facts about India Geography of India History of India Economy of India Culture of India India Census Maps Who is Who Google Map India Transport in India Road Map of India National Highways in India Indian Railways Metro Maps Air Network in India Airports in India Ports in India Konkan Railway India States & UTs Andhra Pradesh Gujarat Goa Punjab Kerala West Bengal Madhya Pradesh Uttarakhand Telangana Cities Of India Top Ten Cities in India Agra Hyderabad Pune Jaipur Chandigarh Kanpur Amritsar Kochi Travel to India Hotels in India Tourist Places in India India Tour Taj Mahal India Religious Places Hill Stations in India Beaches in India Wildlife Sanctuaries Monuments of India Product & Services Custom Mapping GIS Services On this Day in History Current Events India Events My India Map Games Ikaai Land I Know My India Game World Map World Lat Long Map World Physical Map Continents Map Blank World Map World Map Image World Map in Hindi Countries and Capitals of the World Where is Nepal India Utilities: Distance Calculator India Pin Code Flight Schedule IFSC Code Railway Time Table Driving Direction Maps Shortest Path Finder Road Maps MCD Delhi Circle Rate STD Search Bus Schedule India census Live Cricket Score International Flights Schedule