 Andaman &AMP; Nicobar Administration Home SiteMap Feedback Contact Us Latest Updates Ship/Flight Services Seat Allotment 2015-16 The Daily Telegram/Dweep Samachar Press Release Upcoming VC schedules e-Courts Archives Useful Services Tenders Vacancies Schemes Forms Citizen Charter RTI Photo Gallery The Honb'le Lt. Governor, Lt Gen A K Singh (Retd) participating at function in Port Blair to Celebrate completion of One year of NDA Govt. Date: 25.05.2015 Know Andaman - About Andaman &AMP; Nicobar Islands The Islands represent a Mini India with rich diversity of language, religion and culture. Find out the glorious history, lives, customs and everything else about the UT. More.... Government - About Administration All about the A & N Administration, the departments and Institutions, districts, contact details, e-mail directory, Circulars , Personnel Depart. Website , Quarter Allotment System etc., More.... Tourism - Visit Andaman (Hosted at State Data Centre, A & N Administration) The Islands have some of the world’s best beaches with plenty of forest cover. Visit A & N Islands to have a date with nature. More.... eGovernance - Projects Browse here for eGovernance Projects such as BIRDS, Driving Licence, Islander Identity Card, Ration Card, MIS of Departments, PROMISE etc., More.... Online Services Portal The online portal that provides a single window interface offering a wide variety of services. More.... Announcements   List of Pending indents forms for issuance of Sawn Timber from Govt Saw Mill, Chatham (191kb) Vacancy for filling up the post of LGC in the establishment of A&N Islands Khadi (87kb) List of Eligible/Ineligible candidates/awaited candidates for approval for the post of JE in Ele. dept (774kb) Nomination invited from eligible individuals for Rajiv Gandhi Manav Seva Award (129kb) Application invited for Merit-cum-Means based scholarship scheme 2015-16 (211kb) Applications invited for Pre-metric Scholarship scheme for the year 2015-16 (195kb) Revised Helicopter flight schedule w.e.f from 18th May 2015 (39kb) Syllabus and Tentative Schedule for Departmental Exam of AIT Cadre (526kb) Vacancy for the various post in HQ Andaman & Nicobar Command/HQIDS (PB) (89kb) Notification regarding Recruitment of LDCs for various Naval Units under A & N Command (346kb) Guidelines, Application form and agreement for motorization of traditional fishing craft (27kb) Application invited for purchase of outboard/inboard engine (38kb) All Announcements Last Updated on: 26-May-2015 Visitors Count: 2555226 (from 8th Dec 2011) Best Viewed in 1024 x 768 (IE 8 and above) The Contents are Owned by Andaman &AMP; Nicobar Administration Designed, Developed &AMP; Hosted by: