United Nations Millennium Development Goals Skip to left navigation | Skip to content Skip to mdgs Welcome to the United Nations. It's your world! UN Search عربي 中文 English Français Русский Español United Nations Millennium Development Goals Home Background UN Partners Calendar Infographics Press Action 2015 Get Involved Disclaimer The United Nations is not responsible for the content of any messages posted on this site or sites linked from this page. The inclusion of a message does not imply the endorsement of the message by the United Nations. Tweets by @WeCanEndPoverty The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) – which range from halving extreme poverty rates to halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and providing universal primary education, all by the target date of 2015 – form a blueprint agreed to by all the world’s countries and all the world’s leading development institutions. They have galvanized unprecedented efforts to meet the needs of the world’s poorest. The UN is also working with governments, civil society and other partners to build on the momentum generated by the MDGs and carry on with an ambitious post-2015 development agenda . News on Millennium Development Goals On International Day, Ban says biodiversity is essential to sustainable development, eradicating poverty Variety of life on Earth is essential for the welfare of current and future generations, Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon said on the International Day for Biological Diversity. At UN forum, Ban urges world leaders aim to set global roadmap for education until 2030 New UN-backed report emphasizes possible contribution of forests to ending hunger A new United Nations-backed report on the link between forests and food production and nutrition says that woodlands could be the key to ending hunger and will be intimately linked to the global fight against climate change. UN agency unveils alternative policy agenda to transform economies, make gender equality a reality A major new report released today in seven locations around the world by the  United Nations entity for gender equality and women’s empowerment  (UN Women) calls for the transformation of economies to make women’s rights and equality a reality. World Malaria Day: call to close gaps in prevention and treatment to defeat malaria The World Health Organizatio n is calling on the global health community to urgently address significant gaps in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of malaria. On International Women's Day, UN urges more action to achieve gender equality To mark International Women's Day on 8 March, senior United Nations officials highlighted the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action , a historic roadmap signed by 189 governments 20 years ago that set the agenda for realizing women's rights. The ongoing Commission on the Status of Women, will bring representatives of UN Member States, civil society groups and UN entities together to take stock of where women stand today. Ahead of global risk reduction conference, UN review finds vast majority of disasters climate-related The United Nations office dedicated to disaster risk reduction today appealed to world leaders ahead of a major gathering in northern Japan next week to provide clear, action-oriented guidance to tackle the underlying drivers of risk, such as climate change, which now accounts for 87 per cent of the disasters that have killed some 700,000 people over the past decade. Fuelled by ‘strong’ cereal stocks, world food prices dip to lowest level since July 2010 Food prices dipped to a 55-month low in February, dropping a steady per cent from the previous month and 14 per cent below its level compared to a year earlier, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) reported today. The continuing decline- lowest level since July 2010 - reflects a robust supply environment and ongoing weakness in many currencies versus the United States dollar, Michael Griffin, FAO's dairy and livestock market expert, confirmed in a statement. UN agency photo competition shines spotlight on ‘family meal’ in achieving 'Zero Hunger' Scenes of families eating together in Burundi, Laos and the Philippines won a photo competition judged by celebrity chef Jamie Oliver aimed at demonstrating the simple yet powerful role provided by sitting tougher and eating as a family, according to the World Food Programme (WFP). The photographs aimed at highlighting the importance of food and nutrition in everyday life and the role families play in achieving Zero Hunger . See more news on the Millennium Development Goals>> Copyright | Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Site Index | Fraud Alert | UN Web Services Section, Department of Public Information , © United Nations