Help : The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. Skip to main content Text Size: Contrast Scheme: Home Submit Query Feedback Related Links Faq Contact Us Search: You are here: Home Help Print (Opens in a new window) Large Print (Opens in a new window) Help The CCI website includes information in different file formats as well as has incorporated different accessibility features to help users browse the website with ease. Help on viewing information in different file formats and accessing accessibility features is given below: View different file formats Accessibility help View different file formats This website includes some content that are available in non-HTML format. They might not be visible properly if your browser does not have the required plug-ins to view the same. For example, Acrobat Reader software is required to view Adobe Acrobat PDF files. If you do not have this software installed on your computer, you can download it for free. Following table contains links to download plug-ins that are required to view information provided in alternate file format: Document Type Download PDF content Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window) Accessibility Help Use the accessibility options provided by this Web site to control the screen display. These options allow changing the text size and color scheme for clear visibility and better readability. Changing the Text Size Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. There are five options provided to you to set the size of the text that affect readability. Following text size options are provided in the form of icons which are available on the top of each page: Smallest text size: Allows to decrease the text size by two level Smaller text size: Allows to decrease the text size by one level Medium text size: Allows to set default text size Larger text size: Allows to increase the text size by one level Largest text size: Allows to increase the text size by two level Changing the Contrast Scheme Changing the contrast scheme refers to applying a suitable background and text color that ensures clear readability. The website includes four two options to change the contrast scheme. Following different two options are provided in the form of icons which are available on the top of each page: Black on White: Applies white colour to the background and black colour to the foreground text Yellow on Black: Applies black colour to the background and yellow colour to the foreground text Note: Changing the color scheme does not affect the images on the screen. Related Accessibility Links Accessibility Statement Accessibility Features Quick Links About Us Open List Hon'ble Minister of State Textiles (Independent Charge) CCI - An Organisation Board of Directors Highlights of Achievements Objectives Operations Network Procurement of Kapas Sale of Cotton Financial Performance Brief note on Financial Performance Ten Year Financial Result Annual Report Developmental Activities National Cotton Scenario Current Cotton Scenario Press Releases CSR Statistics Vigilance Citizens Charter Right to Information Act Technology Mission on Cotton (TMC) Property Return (Immovable) Lokayukta Return Public Notices Open List Tenders Auctions Awards Recruitment Notices Complaint Policy (101.71 KB) Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) E-Magzine / E-Journal Open List Rajbhasha Rashmi Quarterly Report (140.12 KB) Day's Sales Quotes Export Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Help Accessibility Statement Website designed and developed by: Barrierbreak Technologies | © 2011 The Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. All Rights Reserved.