Welcome to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser. You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website. Click here to Enable. Home Campus Life Admissions Research Training Careers Tenders Citizen Charter About Us Vision Mission Mandates Director Academic Academic Prospectus Academic Programs Food Process Engineering Food Science and Technology Academic Milestones Research Projects IICPT-Research Projects Students Projects Collaborations International National Industries Lab Facilities Departments Academics and Human Resource Development Food Engineering Food Packaging and System Development Food Product Developments Food Safety and Quality Testing Primary Processing, Storage and Handling Technology Dissemination Incubation Centre Faculty Members Adjunct Faculty Incubation Center Food Safety and Quality Testing Lab Services Offered Trainings at our Incubation centre Food Analysis Charges Publications List of Brochures and Manuals IICPT Publications & Rates Library Facilities Rules & Regulations Events Forthcoming Events Concluded Events Regional Centres Guwahati RTI Contact us Related Links Short Term Courses Home    Departments    Food Product Developments Food Product Developments Faculties 1. Dr.R.Jagan Mohan  -Associate Professor and Head 2.  Er.Pratibha Singh    - Assistant Professor 3. Er.Sandeep - Assistant Professor  At the Food Product Development Laboratory, we guide and support industries efforts to bring their product to market and also trying to utilize the food industry byproducts to prepare novel value added products. Our Product and Process Development consultants work with clients to prepare products optimization for commercial marketing that meet the demands of consumers in the retail food service sector. Food formulations using underutilized grains (millets, pulses etc), quality checking and ingredient suitability for different end users within the preview of food safety will be carried out. The major area of focus will be on the usage of novel food ingredients. We are focusing on developing total quality management system, nutrition labeling, sensory quality and shelf life studies with appropriate cost effective packaging system. Nutritional studies and development of the products suitable for vulnerable groups is another area of interest. Fluid balance and thermoregulatory drinks for sports people, improve nutritious meal choices and establishing long-term habits of healthy eating for a positive effect on cognitive and spatial memory capacity, fortification of foods to improve its nutritional quality, easily digestible and nutritionally acceptable food for infants and aged people are some of the areas in which our scientists are working on. Our faculty members are conducting research in the emerging fields like nondestructive quality evaluation using machine vision system, acoustic resonance technique and soft x-ray imaging for the internal and external quality evaluation of fruits, vegetables, grains, safe and chemical free storages of food grains and similar other fields. No. Of Visitors : Home | Campus Life | Admissions | News and Events | Photo Gallery | Contact Us © All Rights Reserved to Indian Institute of Crop Processing Technology (IICPT). Web Solution by Amrithaa.com