Vice-Chancellor's Desk | University of Mysore Top_Menu Tenders RTI Gallery ePrints@UOM Contact Us University of Mysore Navigation About UOM Emblem NAAC CBCS Syllabus Administration Chancellor Pro-Chancellor Vice Chancellor Registrar Registrar (Evaluation) PMEB - Director CDC - Director Finance Officer Administrative Officer Authorities Syndicate Academic Council Finance Committee Faculty & Departments Faculty of Arts Faculty of Science and Technology Faculty of Commerce Faculty of Education Faculty of Law Institutes P G Campuses Facilities Library You are here Home » Vice-Chancellor's Desk Vice-Chancellor's Desk Message from the Vice Chancellor ( Prof.K.S. Rangappa )   I am very happy to extend a warm welcome to the international community of the University of Mysore, one of India’s premier institutions of higher learning. The University of Mysore enjoys the rare and unique honour of parenting four universities in Karnataka,  these being the Bangalore University in 1964, Mangalore University in 1980, Kuvempu University in 1987 and the Karnataka State Open University in 1996. Known for its excellent infrastructure, which provides the ideal ambience  for pursuit of academic excellence, the University has several laurels to its credit. Recently, the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India conferred the status of ‘Institution of Excellence’ to the University by awarding a grant of Rupees 100 crores for carrying out   advanced research in the fields of biodiversity, bioprospecting and sustainable development. The University Grants Commission has conferred the recognition of ‘University with Potential for Excellence’ with a financial assistance of Rupees 50 crores. The Department of Science and Technology has awarded a special grant of Rupees 09 crores under the PURSE (Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence) in recognition of the quality publication output of the university faculty. In its third cycle of accreditation the University has received an ‘A’  Grade (2013) from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), thus continuing the tradition of excellence set by the Five Star status (2000) and A+ Grade (2006)  it received in the first two accreditation cycles. The University’s outstanding contribution to high quality research in different faculties of knowledge, its social concerns reflected in the advocacy and outreach activities and the thrust on wholesome development of student potential have attracted students and faculty from across the world to its doors. Over the years, the University’s international student presence is becoming very visible and vibrant. With its commitment to multiculturalism, the University is truly a ‘home away from home'. I wish you an academically enriching and culturally rewarding stay at the University of Mysore. About UOM History Emblem CBCS Accreditation Admissions P G Courses Constituent Colleges Institutes Research Centre Academics Departments Courses Notifications Application Processing -  Online Programs Contact Us Address Directory CampusMap 2015Powered by © Zocampus (Q Ventures Pvt Ltd)                                                                              VICE-CHANCELLOR'S DESK      TENDERS      NEWS      EPRINTS@UOM      CONTACTUS