Duron Energy - solar energy products - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Duron Energy – solar energy products Home Duron Energy – solar energy products Supplies solar energy products. Based in Bangalore Vernie Sannoo Duron Energy was set up in 2008 within Idealab, an incubator of technology companies based in Pasadena, California. Duron moved its headquarters to Bangalore, India in 2009. The company supplies solar energy products.  “About 403 million households in India are without electricity, with the majority of them in rural India. As 47% of the Indian rural population has either no electricity or partial electricity, they need alternate source of energy. Presently these consumers depend on kerosene lamps for lighting needs. This is harmful for their health and also not a complete solution for lighting the home,” says Mr. Vernie Sannoo, vice-president retail sales. He adds, “To cater to the needs of such consumers solar home lighting products were launched. With this children are able to study, small shops can operate for longer time, and cooking can be done in a safer environment. This contributes to increased income, upgraded life and it contributes to overall wellbeing of people.” Challenges faced : The company faced challenges in building distribution network to reach the villages. Educating people about the benefits of solar energy and providing easy finance options to facilitate purchase of products were other challenges the company faced. Mr. Sannoo says, “People are used to CFL lighting which consumes 75% more power than LED. We have to carry demo kits to prove the brightness of light. But most of the consumers appreciate the quality of our LEDs as we offer 5 years of warranty. Some LEDs are water proof and are used extensively by fisherman community while going to deep sea.” He adds, “The challenge in rural India is affordability. In some states we have various banking or micro finance tie-up for providing options to purchase products in installments. But, still most of the sales take place on cash down. However, our products are reasonably priced.” Products : Duron offers all-in one portable solar photovoltaic (PV) power systems that provide solution for home lighting, mobile charging and a fan. Speaking about the specialty of the product, Mr. Sannoo says, “The product is compact, made of poly carbonate rust proof, shock proof, and easy to clean long lasting casing. It has a battery within the casing, and plug & play LED power saving lights, fans and a mobile charger. The accessories along with panel are shipped to the customer in a box, who can assemble them easily. The products are safe to carry with dry batteries. The lights have 5 years warranty and solar panel comes with 10 years warranty.”  The solar products are charged with solar panels. “It has micro controller based system, which cuts off the battery charging once the charge is complete. The battery life is 500 charge discharge cycles. Duron has a tie up with leading battery manufactures where batteries can be purchased by rural customers easily. The charging system is reliable and self-regulating,” he maintains.  Further speaking about the specialty of the products, he says, “Our products are durable due to rust proof, shock proof casing. We provide quality LED lights with 5 years warranty, and solar panels with 10 years warranty. They are also easy to carry and portable in nature. We also provide effective after sales service.”  He adds, “We are unique in our approach and product category. In terms of competition we have mostly unorganized players competing with us.” Marketing Strategy : Regarding their marketing strategy, Mr. Sannoo says, “We have distributors who are closer to the market. We are also building service points with these distributors. We appoint advisors in rural area, to whom we offer handsome commissions to promote our products and also in turn offer earning opportunity. Products are available with our dealers. We also have tie ups with some leading organizations through whose distribution network the products are distributed. These distribution points are supported by our own company employees.” He adds, “Our systems are designed to offer complete home lighting solutions and thus have 2-3 LED lights; some are accompanied by torch. Rural consumers have to be upgraded from that concept to solar lantern to home lighting due to which we maintain a demo-based sales process. But once 2-3 lights are installed in a village, we find that consumers’ demand starts increasing.” Future Plans : Mr. Sannoo is upbeat about the future of solar energy products. “Solar is the only alternate sources of energy. In India sunlight is available 300 days in a year. Being renewable energy and clean energy, this is the best alternate for our energy needs,” he adds. Speaking about their achievements, Mr. Sannoo says, “We have lighted over 20,000 households in India reaching out to approximately 2500 villages. Our goal is to reach out to 4 lac villages in India in the next five years,” adding, “Initial phase was tough when we had to sell 2-3 lights in a village. Then onwards people have started understanding the benefits. For example in one village in Jaunpur district of UP, we have lighted more than 100 houses.”  Mr. Sannoo is a science graduate with MDP from IIM. He has 22 years of work experience. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Vernie Sannoo, Vice-President Retail Sales, D uron Energy, 3rd floor, No. 50, Zatakia Center, Above Reliance Footprint 100 ft Road, Indiranagar, Bangalore, – 038  Tel :  +91 80 4347 9393 Mob: 09900064290  Email: vernie@duronenergy.com/ v.sannoo@gmail.com Web: www.duronenergy.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey   Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Duron Energy – solar energy products Related – articles, consultants, downloads Infinite Solar Sakthi Electrical Control’s Solar Pump Controller Hari Agro Products Ensemble Systems – Designs and manufactures special application machines. You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water