Press Note | Welcome to Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use the Site in standard view. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. To use standard view, enable JavaScript by changing your browser options, then try again . Screen reader access Skip to main content Skip to navigation Text Size A Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics Ministry of Commerce and industry, Govt. of India Home FAQ Contact Us Home Organization Profile History Foreign Trade Statistics Ancillary Statistics Indian Trade Journal Commercial Intelligence Commercial Library Press Notes Data Summary Trade Data Priced Detail Data Price Information System Notice Publications Registration Trade Directory Feedback Contact Us RTI FAQ Sitemap Data Dissemination Policy Data Privacy Policy Dynamic Data Revision Policy Quick Estimate Commercial Library Services Recruitment Rules Events / Announcements Media Gallery Highlights Latest 24-months Export final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website Latest 24-months Import final Data upto FEB-2015 is uploaded in the website DGCIS has introduced 168 new commodity groups for publication of principal commodity level foreign trade data Are you interested in doing business with the Government of India Organizations? Click Here Visit the Related sites RFD CITIZEN'S CHARTER Grievance Redressal This site has been visited 994958 times on Friday, May, 29, 2015 PUBLIC GRIEVANCES Home Help Help Links at top of the page 1. Screen Reader Access- This link Provides information regarding access to different Screen Readers. 2. Skip To main Content- This link sends the control to main content, so that visually challenged people can skip to listen header and navigation every time and can switch to main content directly. 3. Skip to navigation- This link sends the control to menu. 4 Text Size- Changing the size of the text refers to making the text appearing smaller or bigger from its standard size. The website allows you to change the text size in two different ways, by clicking on the text size icons present at the top of each page and through the Accessibility Options page. 4.1  Text size Icons Following different options are provided in the form of icons which are available on the top of each page: -            Decrease text size:  Allows to decrease the text size to one level A          Normal  text size:  Allows to set default text size +           Increase text size:  Allows to increase the text size to one level 4.2  Accessibility Options To change the text size using the Accessibility Options page: Select  Accessibility Options . The Accessibility Options page is displayed. From the  Text Size  section, select the appropriate text size. Click  Apply . 5. Change Content Languane    हिंदी में – By clicking on this link, user will be able to see the contents in hindi     In English - This link displays the contents in englishsh   6. Search Facility User can search for documents with entries that contain any  one  of the words he/she specify in the box. View Speeches, Press Release, messages etc. Speeches, press release and messages are in Pdf document, to see these documents user need a PDF reader which can be downloaded freely from  Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window Related Sites :: Contact Us :: Feedback :: Sitemap Source : Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Last Updated on 19-05-2015 Home Downloads & Plug-ins Help Accessibility Statement Accessibility Options Privacy Policy Hyperlinking Policy Copyright Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Contents of this website is published and managed by DGCI&S , Government of India. For any queries regarding this website please contact Web Master. © Copyright reserved by Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 565, Anandapur, Ward No. 108,Sector - 1 , Plot No. 22, ECADP, Kolkata - 700107