Consultancy » Central Silk Board Loading... Screen Reader Access Who's who | Contact Us | Intranet Login Central Silk Board Ministry of Textiles - Govt of India Home About Us Vision & Mission Mandate Organization chart Composition of the Board Act & Rules Citizen's charter FAQ Silk-Sericulture Silk Sericulture Silks of India Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy Schemes Central Sector Centrally Sponsored MKSP Projects for Tasar MGNREGA with CDP NER Textile Promotion Statistics Silk Flash Silk Bulletin Silk Exports & Imports Publications Indian Silk Books Videos Annual Report Downloads RFD Note on sericulture Training Calendar Evaluation Reports Regd. Stake holders Silk Exporters Minutes of Meetings Gallery Services R & D Training Seed Production Consultancy   Consultancy CSB offers National & International Consultancy Services in the Specialized Areas of : Formulation, Appraisal and Implementation Documentation for Development Projects, hand holding till sericultural activity is self sustainable. Management and Administration of Sericulture. Assessment of Training Needs and Organization of On-location Structured Training Programmes for Human Resource Development in Sericulture. Silkworm Seed Organization, and Post-Cocoon Technology and Management. ct services. Seri Consultancy The institute has forged close links with the industry through its consultancy assistance services in the applications of sericulture science, sericulture technology, sericulture engineering, sericulture extension, sericulture training and allied disciplines for business development. These Concept to Commissioning Services are rendered outside the institute, and involve only applications of the experience and expertise of our staff at the existing levels, with minimal or no usage of our facilities for experimental work. Depending on the level of inputs and involvement demanded, these services have been catagorised as Advisory Assistance, Resource & Potential Survey Assistance, Project Formulation Assistance and Total Project Assistance. Total Assistance Spectrum Technical/managerial assistance in identifying viable projects and launching new ventures. Preparation of literature survey/feasibility studies and state-of-the art project/technology forecasting reports. Interpretation and validation of test results and data. Assessment of regional resources' potential for agro-processing industries. Project evaluation for financial and other institutions. Turnkey consultancy. Technical trouble-shooting. Product development/improvement and design. Package development/design, identification/selection and evaluation according to the specific functional needs. Training for field-lavel to managerial responsibilities. Preparation of technical reports specific topics. Pollution abatement/control measures, energy conservation, waste utilization. Technology assessment/evaluation. Contract Research & Projects In order to promote the growth of the sericulture industry through industry-sponsored research, CSRTI undertakes projects for innovative development of technologies. The projects are executed through contractual agreements with the clients, to achieve specific objectives that are of mutual interest. Depending on the type of financial involvement of the client, we offer 2 types of projects: Sponsored Projects and Collaborative Projects. Main Features Development of new product/process/concept and value addition Expansion and diversification Up-scaling of lab-level know-how Problem-solving and trouble-shooting User-based, time-bound and result-oriented Exclusive technology rights for the sponsor and evenly shared rights for the collaborator Total consultancy (Look under TOTAL ASSISTANCE SPECTRUM) Sponsored Projects - Main Features Completely funded by the Sponsor Specified R&D objectives and well-defined expectations of returns Probable generation of intellectual property Scope for multiple sponsors sharing funding as well as results Collaborative Projects - Main Features Partially funded (and partially supported in kind) by the Collaborator Specified R&D objectives and well-defined expectations of returns Scope for active participation of the collaborator Grant-in-Aid Projects To support the efforts of our laboratories in their basic/exploratory research in ongoing/new projects, or to maintain large or nationally important R&D groups or for enhancement/creation of infrastructure/ capabilities, the institute seeks aid from governments or international bodies, in the shape of financial inputs (full/partial) or assistance in kind (equipment, training..). Sitemap Feedback Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2015 Central Silk Board. All Rights Reserved.   This is the official Website of Central Silk Board, a statutory body of Government of India under the Ministry of Textiles Last updated: 21/03/2013