India Political Map in Urdu, Map of India in Urdu Home » India Political Map in Urdu   Maps of India Map of India Physical Map of India Outline Map of India more... India Maps And Views India Geography History of India India Census Maps Business and Economy India Culture more... Transport Network In India Road Map of India India Rail Network Air Network in India Ports in India & waterways more... India Travel Hotels in India Temples in India Hill Stations more... India States & Union Territories Kerala Goa Gujarat Rajasthan more... Cities Of India Top 10 Cities of India Bangalore Mumbai Chennai more... Driving Direction Maps National Highways Intra City Maps more... World Map Product & Services Maps of India CD Custom Mapping Location Locator Solutions more... Our Channels India Automobiles Live Cricket Score India News Indien Karten Karten von Goa Landkarten von Kerala Landkarten von Rajasthan more...       India Political Map in Urdu Political Map of India in Urdu Print Email Free Download   Buy Now * The Map showing All the States of India in Urdu Language. Disclaimer: All efforts have been made to make this image accurate. However Compare Infobase Limited and its directors do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. India political map in Urdu is a customized map for people who speak in Urdu. It helps them understand the various political subdivisions of India and their administrative headquarters. Since Urdu is a widely spoken language both in and outside India, this map will help the travelers who speak in the Urdu language. All the state and union territory boundaries of India have been clearly delineated in this map. Since Urdu is the formal language of the state of Jammu and Kashmir in India and it is spoken and written by a considerable portion of the overall Indian population, this map will rightly guide the Urdu-speaking travelers to find out and visit all the top-rated tourist destinations in India. India is a traveler's paradise and it is a big country which has different types of tourist attractions in store for the visitors. Therefore, it is always necessary to carry a detailed map with you to know the country properly. An India political map in Urdu is this kind of a map which helps in touring the country and exploring the wonders of the country to the fullest. Getting all the important information about the seventh largest democracy in the world is just a matter of minutes. Last Updated on : 11 January 2012 View India Map in Gujarati Bengali English Malayalam Oriya Sanskrit Hindi Marathi Tamil Punjabi Kannada Nepali Telugu Urdu Assamese              