Savera Farms - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Savera Farms Home Savera Farms Located in Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) cultivates meliadubia and premium mango varieties Kaustubh Johri Savera Farms was founded in 2010 by Mr. Kaustubh Johri, Managing Partner. The company has over 140 acres of land outside Sivagangai, Tamil Nadu. The company is currently engaged in the cultivation of meliadubia and premium mango varieties under ultra-high density cultivation. “Apart from this, we are running trials for multiple short term vegetable and fruit cropslike chilly, watermelon, turmeric and brinjal. Our activities have a commercial focus with a natural / organic approach. We are also evaluating options and technologies in Hydroponics. If we are convinced about the technology, we plan on starting a Hydroponics Pilot next year. In the coming years we aspire to expand into more scientific cultivation and food processing,” says Mr. Johri. Speaking about their motivation, Mr. Johri says, “My brother, Nakuland I are from the IT/Engineering background. While we were in the US, westarted exploring opportunities in biomass renewable energy. [hidepost] We soon realized that alongwith biomass, commercial agriculture would be a viable option for the Indian market.It provided great scope for growth if pursued with market savvy, scientifically and with determination. Government payment policies for power producers are not very business friendly at this time hence we changed our focus to marketing meliadubia for timber/plywood. Today, the market environment provides several opportunities in agriculturewhich offer attractive returns and unparalleled job satisfaction,” adding, “Credit also goes to my father, an Air Force officer, who undertook the task of identifying the suitable land at Sivagangai after seeing 100+ lands across TN.” MeliaDubia MeliaDubia is a fast growing timber tree. It is part of neem family. In 1 year, it attains aheight of 20 ft and in 2 years it reaches 40 ft. It does not require much water and minimal amount of fertilizer/nutrients is required. The timber from this tree is used inplywood, match, and biomass industry. Ultra High Density Traditionally, mango is planted at 10m x 10m spacing. In Ultra High Density cultivation(UHD) method, trees are planted at3m x 3m. It involves continuous pruning from year 2 onwards. So eventually, the tree willnot be higher than 6-7 ft. Due to close spacing, number of trees is almost 11 times per acre,which results in higher yield.Typically, the best 40-50 fruits are picked per tree. Advantagesof UHD technology is easy maintenance, lesser water requirement, ease of harvest, higheryield. Most orchard crops can be cultivated using this method including guava. Infrastructure The company has developed a shade net operation which serves astheir nursery for raising seedlings / saplings and trial grounds for future varieties in largeracreages. Hydroponics The company is evaluating Hydrophonics. Speaking about the technology, Mr. Johri says, “Most vegetables and some fruits can be grown using Hydroponics. The return on investmentis attractive for high value crops like colored capsicum,also known as yellow and redpeppers. In Hydroponics, you can tweak most climatic and nutritional attributes hence producing better quality and greater quantity. Often year round cultivation is possible.Yield projections by consultants and listed online should be validated independently before significant investment is made. Hydroponics infrastructure expenses greatly vary based oncrop and methodology.” Speaking about the technologies used, Mr. Johri says, “Apart from UHD for mango, our farms are irrigated and fertigated via drip systems. We havealso followed composting technologies from TNAU (from coir pith waste).” Preventing Pests and Diseases The company uses a mix of organic and inorganic applications. “Neem oil which is organic has been fairlysuccessful in preventing/mitigating pest infestations. Although we are not totally organic, werestrain from using chemicals excessively,” maintains Mr. Johri. Achievements When asked about their achievements, Mr. Johri says, “We feel our drip systems have been a success and efficiently deliver water and nutrients. Wehave over 35 kms of drips lines (laterals) and 5 km of PVC pipes (Main and sub-main pipes)spanning 30 acres. Initial planning and execution was a challenge but since then, we havelearnt several lessons and have become more competent in implementing these systems on our farms. In addition, our shade net cultivation seems to be fast becoming a pre-cursorto our Hydroponic aspirations. We have raised several varieties of crops in it on a small scale and continue to explore new ways to control environment variables like pests, provide irrigation and fertigation.” He adds, “Our goals for the next year include expanding our acreage under cultivation and high valuevegetable production using Hydroponic systems. Over the longer term, we would be very interested in exploring food preservation and processing opportunities. India is among the most populous nations in the world and the demand (and prices) for food is going to rise. We are at a threshold of a great opportunity to do good for our people (safefood at reasonable prices), ourselves (profitable ventures) and our environment (sustainable practices). This is a rare combination and we feel we are in the right industry at the right time.” There are close to 25 people working in the company, including full time and part-time resources. The company receives queries and calls from people living abroad and other parts of India regarding UHD and meliadubia. “Some have visited our farms and a few have even started active land search or farm development activities. I do not charge for any advice or visits. Countless agri-veterans helped me when I was starting out. They did not charge me anything, so I shall be glad to share my information and experiences with all who are interested. On my blog I try to publish both my trials and triumphs to provide an accurate picture. Hopefully my experiences and successes would inspire others to consider agriculture as well,” maintains Mr. Johri. The farm is located in Sivagangai, Tamil Nadu. The company marketsits produce / products in Kerela and Karnataka. Mr. Johri did his Bachelors in Electrical Engineeringat Georgia Tech and Masters in Engineering Management at Duke University. He worked in the semi-conductor industry before setting up Savera Farms. Our Correspondent For more information, contact : Mr. Kaustubh Johri, Managing Partner Savera Farms Mob : 094450 76595 Email : kjohri@gmail.com www.saverafarms.com Source : Agriculture & Industry Survey Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Savera Farms Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mango Farms Tripod Farms – fruit farm Professional Agro Farm Development Adyanaturals Farms – SRI method for rice cultivation You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water