Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy - website for farmers - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 4+8=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy – website for farmers Home Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy – website for farmers Connects Indian farmers with international buyers XeFarm.com gives the farmers access to knowledge base system and connects them with businessmen in international market. “We have categorized our user base depending on their occupation, who may contact the farmers directly using our website and app,” says Founder Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy. Drive for Barasat, Kolkata based Mr. Roy to start the website was to change the market dynamics where farmer and businessmen are able to do business with best possible market rate. In addition, “It would help farmers sell their farm produce independently, earn in justification to their farming efforts and continue working in agriculture with pride,” he says. Website aims to connect farmers with buyers outside India. “First I started FreshFarm.in with same objective to connect Indian farmers with buyers outside India but as the website address had ‘.in’ visitors assumed we are working for India only so I started XeFarm.com,” he shares. Explaining operations at Xefarm.com Mr. Roy says, “We are in person collecting data of farmers and businessman. Farmers are listed on the website categorized as per their locations and products. We also mention the quantities of the farm products produced by the farmers so that buyers are able to make more precise search for their product requirements.” Call center is also being set-up to provide market information to the farmers, “With just a phone call farmers will be able to get the details on crop prices,” he adds. Once farmers register themselves with website their detailed profile is accessible to the buyers. “If the farmers do not want to reveal their contact details then they can opt to interact with buyers through XeFarm else they can have direct interactions,” he shares. When asked farmers are having technological constraints making it difficult for online registration, he responds, “That is why we are collecting data by personal visits and interaction during seminars. Our staff ensures there is no error in the profile of the farmers.” There is no fee charged for registration. Around 770 farmers and 80 businessmen are registered on the website so far. To create awareness on Xefarm.com seminars are conducted in villages. 2014 start-up venture Xefarm.com is receiving good response from buyers based at Australia, South Africa, Spain, Philippines etc. At the moment website is focused only as exchange of contacts of farmers and businessmen, “We are not involved in any eCommerce activities ourselves,” clarifies Mr. Roy. Being from West Bengal Mr. Roy and his team started registering farmers from Eastern and North Eastern part of India. To reach farmers across India followed by other countries, “We are using social media websites and Google. We are trying to reach them locally with local language. Further farmers’ next generation is internet savvy so things are slow and challenging but not impossible,” he adds. To further simplify the process, soon Xefarm.com would have a mobile app for free registration. Sharing details Mr. Roy says, “This is in developing phase. It will take another 3-4 months. The app will include a feature so that the farmer will be able to take image of his product and upload on the website with detailed information.” Xefarm.com will also be registered in USA, “International visitors were not keen on registering with us citing issues about data security. To resolve the problem our well-wishers advised us to become a global company by registering business in USA. It is in process, we are working on some of the legal issues and papers for the same,” he shares, “Also, generally the multinational companies send their order to local agent and he orders the farmers to grow the same. International registration shall help the companies to contact farmers directly.” Stating the future plan Mr. Roy concludes, “So far I have created different phases and will move accordingly to change the market dynamics. Change can be attained only through rich database of farmers and businessman hence I am keen on developing it.” Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy holds B. Tech. in Biotechnology from Haldia Institute of Technology. Prior to starting Xefarm.com he worked with MPS Food Products as commercial assistant – technology and quality control. Later he worked as research assistant and technical assistant with Jadavpur University & BITM and Bose Institute respectively. Contact details- Xefarm.com 1st Floor, Renuka Building, Bidhan Park, Barasat, 24 Pgs(N), W.B.-124, India Mobile: +91- 8420138318 Email: niladri@xefarm.com Website : http://www.xefarm.com/ Complete this form to ask questions or get more details Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone (required) Your Message Quiz: 5+9=?   Search – articles Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store You are here: AgricultureInformation.com > ARTICLES > Mr. Niladri Shekhar Roy – website for farmers Related – articles, consultants, downloads Mchoose.com – marketing support for farmers India’s farmers start to mechanize amid a labour shortage Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Dr. R. C. Pradhan – oil seed decorticator You can also post your message via missed call 0888 0884 000 (India) PRINTED MAGAZINE AVAILABLE Get a summary of articles and messages posted on this website in the form of easy to read printed magazine. ORDER HERE Archives – articles Select Month May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 March 1013 Tags – articles agriculture agriculture equipment banana bio fertilizers coconut commodity trading consultancy contract farming Dairy Dairy farm farmer farm machinery Featured Fence floriculture food processing fruit Goat green house herbal herbs horticulture Hybrid Seeds Hydroponics irrigation mango mango farming medicinal plants mushroom Nursery organic Organic Certifications Organic farming organic fertilizers poly house pomegranate seeds Soil testing kits solar Solar products Spices Stevia Tissue culture vegetables water