Palmarosa oil - AgricultureInformation.com Want to buy, sell or ask questions. Post your message to contact us Subject / Title Your Message Upload attachment, photo etc (optional) Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Your Phone/Mobile (required) Answer this question 9+6=?   Toggle navigation Home Message Board Post your message Questions Wanted For Sale Discussion Forum Articles Members Directory Banner Ads Online Store Discussion Forum Members Directory Online Store Need Help? Your shopping bag is empty. Go to the shop Online Store Home Products Palmarosa oil Palmarosa oil Buy directly from supplier Request Price Description Product Description Botanical Name : Cymbopogon martini Parts Used : whole plant Origin : India Mode Of Extraction : Steam Distillation Main Constituents: Geraniol, grenyl acetate etc. Description: Clear Transparent Liquid Appearance: pale yellow liquid Organoleptic properties: sweet floral, with a hint of rose smell Refractive index at 20°C: 1.4690 – 1.4770 Specific Gravity at 25°C : 0.8810 – 0.8930 Solubility: Insoluble in water; soluble in organic solvents Storage: HDPE drums and GI drums Description of Extraction : We grow the grasses in our field and undergo the process of oil extraction. The oil is extracted from the fresh herbage cut after the maturity. The distillation is done under the experienced staff for quality produce. Chemical composition The main chemical components of palmarosa oil are myrcene, linalool, geraniol, geranyl acetate, dipentene and limonene. Uses Palmarosa oil calms the mind, yet has an uplifting effect, while clearing muddled thinking. It is used to counter physical and nervous exhaustion, stress-related problems and nervousness. It is most useful during convalescence and cools the body of fever, while aiding the digestive system, helping to clear intestinal infection, digestive atonia and anorexia nervosa. It is effective in relieving sore, stiff muscles. Palmarosa oil moisturizes the skin, while balancing the hydration levels and stimulating cell regeneration. It balances production of sebum, to keep the skin supple and elastic and is valuable for use with acne, dermatitis, preventing scarring, rejuvenating and regenerating the skin, as well as fighting minor skin infections, sore tired feet and athlete’s foot. Palmarosa oil blends well with Although essential oils blend well with one another, Palmarosa oil blends particularly well with geranium, bergamot, rosemary, lime and ylang-ylang If you have any questions fill the product enquiry form above. SKU: KTCI1 . Category: Extracts . Tag: Palmarosa . Social share Related Products Free Buy directly from supplierr Request Price Quick View Extracts Cumin Seed Oil Free Buy Directly from Supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts , Farm Output Natural Vanilla extract Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts Rose water Free Buy directly from supplier Request Price Quick View Extracts , Farm Output Shadow dried soursop leaves powder Cart Product Categories Animal Husbandry (1) Farm Inputs (223) Animal Feed (6) Equipment (108) Greenhouse (7) Irrigation (16) Sprayer (5) Tractors & Tillers (12) Grow Bags (5) Nutrients (36) Packaging (2) Planting Material (24) Protection (7) Soil Testing Kits (7) Solar (4) Technology/Software (3) Water Testing (5) Farm Output (51) Extracts (5) Fresh Produce (10) Organic Produce (5) Processed Items (11) Knowledge (34) Books (2) Experts (21) Project Reports (1) Publications (5) Tours/Expos (2) Training (1) Marketing (3) Advertising (3) Others (15) Product Tags advertising agriculture land aloe vera animal feed bamboo banana brush cutter cattle feed chaff cutter chicken coconuts curry leaf dairy farming drip irrigation equipment fruits goat farming grow bags HDPE hydrophonics irrigation magazine medicinal plants net pots npk organic fertiliser packaging plant growth promoter plant growth stimulator Potassium Rotavator seeds soil soil nutrients soil testing kits sprayer stevia technology tiller tractors training